You know, names in the Bible have
meaning. It's It's not like today. I
mean, we just make stuff up, don't we? I
mean, it's interesting. Uh there's names
all over the show. They mean all kinds
of things. They don't really mean
anything now. I mean, um if they do,
then you should all bow to me because my
name is Rex, which means king, you know,
and it means nothing, right? It means
nothing, right? So, that's that's the
way it is. But if names had a meaning,
you know, uh, and you were an author,
uh, a good name would be Paige Turner.
That would be great. Or, or if you were
a woman who was a pig farmer, uh, your
name might be Anita Bath. And if if you
were a single woman, your name might be
Anita Man. But I think I think names
don't mean anything. We just I like
that. That's a pretty name, right? Isn't
that it? Every one of us. It's just
pretty.
Is that it? Very seldom does a name mean
anything. Some people will try, but it's
usually in a different language and then
we don't know what they mean. Only you
have to explain it. So, no. But with the
Lord, his name means something. And the
names in the Bible meant something. God
the Father's name means something and
I'm very timid about even using his
name. Uh Jesus means something and so
the idea that he would be called as in a
name wonderful counselor.
I want to talk about that today. I I
think just about this text you need to
see these introductory concepts. This is
a prophetic utterance, right? This is a
prophecy that came to pass. So, the Holy
Spirit revealed to the great prophet
Isaiah
uh just in this one text three very
important truths that you just take note
of right now. One, that the son of God
was coming. We know that because of a
couple of things it says here. Verse
six, unto us a child is born and to us a
son is given. And so that theme of a son
coming is taken up several places, but I
like Psalm 2 and verse 7, I will declare
the decree. The Lord has said to me, you
are my son today. I've begotten you. So
the the father had said, you are my son.
So the son of God was coming, but more
than that, the son of David was coming.
It goes on to say that the government
will be upon his shoulder. This is
significance to the meaning of being
upon his shoulder. You'll catch it in
just a moment. In verse 7, it says, "Of
the increase of his government and
peace, there will be no end upon the
throne of David and over his kingdom to
order it and establish it with justice
and judgment from that time forward,
even forever." So unlike David who came
to an end, this would never end. Isaiah
22:22,
the key of the house of David, I will
lay on his shoulder again. So he shall
open and no one shall shut and he shall
shut and no one shall open. That means
opening the kingdom and how he opens it.
You enter the way he says to enter it or
you don't enter it at all. And then he's
the wonderful counselor that we're
looking at this morning. And his name
shall be called wonderful counselor.
Isaiah 28:29.
This also comes from the Lord of hosts
who is wonderful in counsel and
excellent in guidance. And that's what
we're really going to look at about him.
I want in this holiday season when we're
all talking about the baby Jesus and all
of that, I want you to see something a
little deeper. I want you to see who
we're really trying to honor. I want
look at four little lessons. That's it
for today. Jesus is called wonderful
counselor first and foremost because his
counsel is wonderfully helpful.
It helps you. If you're not a common
churchgoer, you need to know that these
words
make a difference.
It really does help you get through this
world.
Acts 20:20, Paul is speaking about the
message that he's proclaiming about
Jesus. And he says, "How I kept nothing
uh count back nothing that was helpful,
but proclaimed it to you and taught you
publicly and from house to house." And
then verse 27 again says, "For I have
not shun to declare to you the whole
council of God." The whole council of
God is therefore helpful. You want to
have a better world, your little world.
You want it to be a better life, a
better way of living. You want help in
that. Read it.
Read it over and over and over again.
Matthew 7, Jesus said this in the sermon
on the mount in verses 24 and 25.
Whoever hears the sayings, these sayings
of mine, and does them, if you hear them
and you do them, I will liken him to a
wise man who built his house on the
rock. And the rain descended, the floods
came, and the winds blew, and beat on
that house, and it did not fall, for it
was founded on the rock. Listen to me.
Husband, wife, you want to hear marriage
counseling?
Commit yourself to Jesus, your marriage
will last. Do you hear that?
Husband committed to Jesus. Wife
committed to Jesus, your marriage will
last. You want to not have that, don't
commit to Jesus, one of you. It just
takes one. Just one not committing to
Jesus and you can destroy it. And we
know this is true. Matthew 7:28 after
he's through it says, "And then so it
was when Jesus had ended these sayings
that the people were astonished at his
teaching." And let me just suggest to
you that everything Jesus taught,
everything he taught was astonishingly
great. In Matthew 22:23, it says, "And
when the multitude heard this, they were
as astonished at his teaching." Why?
Because it makes a difference. It helps.
He is called wonderful counsel because
all of his teaching,
all of his teaching is a counsel and
it's astonishing helpful to us. It
provides greater stability. If you want
to know how your life will last and you
will be able to get through anything
founded on Jesus, your way of life will
be better if you found it on the
teachings of Jesus. Your faith will be
solid if you founded on the teachings of
Jesus. Our homes will last if they're
founded on the teaching of Jesus. You
will stand firm in his care. Listen, you
want to see people who are out in the
world and they just seem like they're
fighting this way and that way. You know
what we know? There's not much Jesus in
there.
The more Jesus you put in, the stronger
you're going to be.
Second little truth, not only is he
called wonderful counselor because his
counsel is wonderfully helpful, it is
wonderfully effective.
Listen to Ephesians chapter 1. Paul
again speaking about Paul about Jesus
teaching in verse 10. It says that in
the dispensation of the fullness of the
times, he might gather together in one
all things in Christ, both which are in
heaven and which are on earth in him. In
him also we have obtained an
inheritance, being predestined according
to the purpose of him who, listen to
this statement, works all things
according to the counsel of his will.
Everything works out if you listen to
him. All the teachings, all the counsel
of Jesus is astonishingly
effectual in us. And by that, what I
mean, you know, we're working on this
big project. We're looking at this big
building. You just saw me show that to
you.
That doesn't do the work.
Are you hearing me?
That's not what we're here for.
That's an opportunity is what that is.
It is designed, we building all this to
create opportunities for the gospel to
work. The gospel is what works.
And if you don't trust the gospel, we're
already up creek. We're we're in trouble
right now. Listen to what Jesus himself
says. John 12:32, "And I, if I am lifted
up from the earth, will draw all peoples
to myself." What works? What pulls
people in? Having a bunch of buildings,
it might get them here, but it won't
pull them into the kingdom. Only the
gospel pulls people into the kingdom.
That's where the power is. The power is
in the gospel of Jesus Christ. It is the
power of God to salvation. Romans 1:16.
Mark 6 and verse two. He says he began
to teach in the synagogue and many heard
him were astonished. You hear that
again? Listening to Jesus, you're
astonished. Why? It's not like your
counsel. We listen to you. You rattle on
all day long. We all do it. You sit
around talking and half the time what
you said wasn't worth saying, right?
Amen yourself. Amen. Me.
Half of what we say isn't worth saying.
Amen.
Now, let's be honest. 3/4 of what we say
ain't worth saying. All right, I'll move
on. Man, Mark 6 and verse two, he began
to teach in the synagogue, and many
hearing him were astonished, saying,
"Where did this man get these things?
And what wisdom is this with which is
given to him? It's not like everybody
else is talking. Mark 11:18 says, "And
the scribes, the chief priests heard it
and sought how they might destroy him,
for they feared him because all the
people were astonished
at his when they're going, whoa, what he
just said, whoa." And when you really
grasp what Jesus says, you go, "Whoa."
You you really are struck
and hear it. Our gospel,
as feeble as we are, our gospel,
our teaching,
our work, which is that's our work right
there. That's our work. It works.
It works when it's done poorly.
It's work. It works when it's done
ignorantly.
It works when it's done shabily
because it isn't in the container
delivering it that makes it work. It's
not in the building that it's delivered
in that makes it work.
It's the power of it within and of
itself to make it work. It is the gospel
itself because it is the words not of a
man but of God. It is different. Don't
doubt the power. lift Jesus up and
people will come to that. People want
Jesus. People don't want me. People
don't want you. They want Jesus. Now, if
you show them Jesus, they want that. But
they don't want the other because
they're not astonished at us. They don't
look at us and say, "Oh, I'm astonished
at you. Get over yourself." That's not
what does it. They're astonished at
Jesus. So he is called wonderful
counselor because all of his teaching
his counsel is astonishingly
effectual in you providing greater power
for greater change. So it it's helpful
creating greater stability. It is
helpful because it causes greater change
in all of us. But let's look at one
other thing here.
He's called wonderful counselor because
his counsel, the words that he spoke is
wonderfully immutable,
unchangeable.
That's not like you.
You stuff changes all the time. My stuff
changes all the time. I think one thing,
I think another. I say something, then I
change my mind.
Hebrews 6:17
Thus God determined to show more
abundantly to the heirs of the promise
the immutability, the unchangeableness,
the immutability of his counsel,
confirmed it by an oath. See, God's
counsel, he doesn't say, "Well,
we're going to come back and end the
world.
Oh, I changed my mind."
He doesn't do that.
It's not like that with them. In Genesis
22:16, it says, "And said," by myself I
have sworn, says the Lord, because you
have done this thing and have not
withheld your son, your only son. He's
talking to Abraham. I have sworn this
that verse 18, in your seed, now he's
talking about Jesus. In your seed, all
the nations of the earth shall be
blessed because you have obeyed my
voice. one of your descendants is going
to be the one and I'm going to bless the
world. Did could that be changed? No.
And what I want you to see is everything
Jesus taught was immutable.
Nothing to be changed. So, so people
want to, you know, it's funny. People
want to change the Bible. Have you
noticed that? It's weird. They want to
change the verse. How many versions do
we have to have? Right? Somebody used to
say, "Well, we need it in our language
so we can understand it." really
sometimes I think it's because we just
don't really like the way it said it
that we wanted a different version. All
of the teaching council of Jesus is not
only astonishingly it is immutable
for us. Listen to Luke 22:44 and 47. It
says I spoke to you while I was still
with you that all things must be this
after his resurrection that all things
must be fulfilled. Listen, if God said
it was going to happen, it's going to
happen. It's it must be fulfilled which
were written in the law of Moses and the
prophets and the psalms concerning me.
Everything that is written about Jesus
had to happen. It all did, by the way,
except for the part where he comes back.
Verse six, and that's coming. Thus, it
is written, "And thus it was necessary
for the Christ to suffer." This is Jesus
talking about himself almost like he's
not the one he's talking about. He says
it was necessary for the Christ to
suffer and to rise from the dead the
third day. If Christ hadn't have died on
that cross, you would not be going to
heaven. Let me go on. And that
repentance and remission of sin should
be preached in his name to all nations.
Listen to me. One thing I do know, every
single nation on the planet will hear
the gospel.
It will go to everybody. Every nation on
this planet will hear it. Why? Because
he said so. In Luke 2:47, "And all who
heard him were astonished at his
understanding and answers." You hear the
word that I keep repeating, they're
astonished. They hear him, they go,
"What?" They are astonished at his
teaching. This is not some normal person
of preaching. In Luke 4 32, it says,
"And they were astonished at his
teaching, for his word was with
authority." It's not like our talking,
our jibberjabber, our little rattling
when we're talking to our buddies. This
is not the conversations he had.
So, he's called wonderful counsel
because of his teaching counsel. It was
astonishingly immutable. That means that
you can have absolute confidence in it.
There's not anything he said he told you
it happened. It's going to happen.
That's all there is to it. Our Christ
had to come. That wasn't up. You say,
"Well, what if they hadn't crucified
him?" That's not possible.
Wasn't possible. Or he had to die. Well,
what if they had you? What if all you
want? He had to die. And he died. That's
it. He had to be raised. What if they
had done that? He had to be raised. It's
going to happen. And not only that, he
had to be preached. Why am I up here
today? This isn't my decision. It isn't
your decision. This is his decision.
This would be preached and nothing could
stop it. And he has to come again. We
just had the Lord's supper. That's a
memory of when he will come back. That's
the reason we do it. He's coming again.
It cannot be stopped. All must happen
because everything he said was 100%
true.
He said, "I am the way and the truth."
everything he said out here in the
public. I don't know when half the
people are speaking the truth, y'all.
About the time I feel like some of
politicians are speaking. I know it's
not true. If I hear it on the news now,
I don't know if I believe anything. I've
gotten where I don't know what to
believe out there, but I know this. This
is truth. Amen. What he said is truth.
So, he's called wonderful counselor
because it's immutable providing greater
confidence. We should have not ever have
nights we'll wake up in the night and
say, "Oh, what's going to happen?
Don't have to worry."
Number,
he's called wonderful counselor because
his counsel is wonderfully remedial. It
cures. Listen to Revelation 3:17-19.
Because you do not know that you are
wretched. Isn't it funny that we don't
know the shape we're in? The world
doesn't know. You do not know that
you're wretched, miserable, poor,
blind, and naked.
I counsel you. This is his counsel. I
counsel you to buy from me gold refined
in the fire that you may be rich. Not
gold like on the earth, the real gold.
and white garments, not like these
things, real garments, that you may be
clothed, that the shame of your
nakedness may not be revealed. God
doesn't want to embarrass you.
And anoint your eyes with eyes. I need
to be able to see that you may see.
Here's the truth. The world is as blind
as a bat. It doesn't know anything about
what's really going on. And yet, they
think they know everything. Verse 19.
And as many as I love, I rebuke and
chasen. Therefore, be zealous and
repent. So what he actually does is he
gives us the cure, the remedy. All of
the teachings of Jesus are like a
medicine. He's like a physician and he
knows exactly what you need for your
particular malady. Whatever your
sickness is, if it's eye problems, he's
got that. If it's leg problems, he's got
that. What do you mean leg problems and
eye problems? Well, let me talk a little
further and then you'll get it. Okay.
So, Luke 4 16-22, it says, "So he came
to Nazareth where he had been brought
up, and as his custom was, he went into
the synagogue on the Sabbath day and
stood up to read. And he was handed the
book of the prophet Isaiah. And when he
had opened the book, he found the place
where it was written. And he found
Isaiah 61:es 1 and two. That's what he
reads. Verse 18, the spirit, this is
what he's reading now. The spirit of the
Lord is upon me because he has anointed
me to preach the gospel to the poor. He
has sent me to heal the brokenhearted.
Those of you who have a broken heart
this morning, he can make it better. To
proclaim liberty to the captives. If
you're caught up in something and you
can't get out of it, only his word can
get you out of it. And recovery of sight
to the blind, if you are blind to the
real truth of this world, you need to
get involved with him to set at liberty
those who are oppressed. If you are
literally oppressed by others, this is
the way out. It's not the way out
politically. That doesn't do it. You can
be free and still be in bondage. verse
19 to proclaim the acceptable year of
the Lord. Then he closed the book and
gave it back to the attendant and sat
down. And the eyes of all who were in
the synagogue were fixed on him. They
just kept watching him. And he began to
say to them, "Today this scripture is
fulfilled in your hearing." So all bore
witness to him and marveled again
astonished at the gracious words which
proceeded out of his mouth. And they
said, "Is this not Joseph's son? How is
he able? What in the world?"
In John 7 14-17 says, 14-17, it says,
"Now about the middle of the feast,
Jesus went up into the temple and
taught." This is teaching in the temple.
And the Jews marveled, saying, "How does
this man know letters having never
studied? He never went to their
educational systems.
He didn't go there. He didn't study
underneath a rabbi.
He didn't need that.
Verse 16, Jesus answered them and said,
"My doctrine is not mine. I didn't get
this. This is not me.
This is not me. My doctrine is not mine.
My teaching's not mine. But his who sent
me, it's coming down straight. It's in a
pipeline." Everybody, verse 17, if
anyone wants to do his will, you want to
know where the wonderful counsel came
from? That's what he's saying. You want
to know where this wonderful counsel
came from? The father.
If anyone wants to do his will, he shall
know concerning the teaching or the
doctrine, whether it is from God or
whether I'm speaking on my own
authority. If you really read it, you
will know, too. See, you don't need
somebody outside to say, "Well, what's
the proof that God exists? What's the
proof that the Bible's real?" If you'll
read it, you'll know.
If you don't know right now, it's cuz
you haven't read it. Because when you
read it, you will be astonished like the
rest of us are. You will change you.
John 7:46 says, "The officers answered,
no man ever spoke like this man." No man
ever spoke like this man.
So his word, what does it do for us?
Well, I already told you that it, you
know, it'll help you be more stable,
right? That's what we looked at at the
beginning. It's effective. It is what
makes the church actually work. reason
if you're baptized today, it was the
Lord that did that. It wasn't that
church, wasn't a preacher, wasn't
somebody doing personal evangelism. It
was the Lord himself that actually did
that. Okay? And that's that's his
effect. And if you if you're here today,
it's because you know it's stable. It's
made your life more stable. I have been
an instable family. I know what it is to
be on the wrong side of that. And I'm
telling you, the word of God changes
things.
But then it'll fix stuff.
The word of God cures.
The word of God heals.
The word of God will redeem you.
The word of God will restore you. The
word of God will feed your soul. I can't
understand people act like they're
hungry. Oh, spiritual depth and won't
open their Bible.
You want to hear a word from God? Pick
up the word and read some of it. It will
feed you. It will strengthen you. It
will make you alive. It will cause you
to be born again. We're born again not
of corruptible seed, but of
incorruptible, the living word of God
that changes everything. But it is what
has fixed the brokenness. What little
bit has been fixed in me? And it'll help
you see again. It'll help you walk
again. it'll help you be well again. So,
he is the wonderful counselor because
all of his teaching counsel is
astonishingly remedial. It it it cures
it providing greater healing for all of
us who are at least willing to admit
we're broken.
So a wonderful counselor wonderfully
helps
us giving us stability,
giving us change, making us confident
and healing those problems, you know. Um
I think every little girl wants to be a
dolphin trainer,
you know, or want to get out. I don't
know what it is, but they like fish and
horses. And
the first year of a dolphin's life, I
was doing a little study on this. First
year of a dolphin's life, did you know
they they start
they got one of those
and everybody I don't know if it's it
may not be scriptural whistle in church.
I don't recall.
Probably not. So they've got Did you
know each one of them has a special
every one of them and they say you could
tell it apart and you get it when you're
this little like when the first year the
dolphin serves
and all the other dolphins say that's
old Bill over there. No, they don't do
that. They say that's oh over there.
That's what they say to themselves,
right? And it's been studied. I mean,
it's been studied a lot. And they now
know that when a dolphin comes up, the
others know who it is already because
they heard his whistle.
Oh, that's they haven't seen him yet.
They mile or two away in the water and
like, "Hey, he's over there. Let's go
over there." You know, and they'll go
and they'll see it and they know where
they are talking to each other with
these whistles and they know each other
by their whistle. And you think, well,
did they really or is that just because
they've been around each other and
they're, you know, they stay in these
ponds? No, they've separated dolphins
for 20 years
and brought them back and instantly
they know each other. It's kind of like
your dog. You've been away like 6 months
and you come back and that dog acts like
it's crazy cuz it's want it loves you so
much. I don't know. But it just goes
crazy, right? It just absolutely goes
crazy. Oh, he's home. He's home. He's
home. you know, well that's that's the
dolphins do that and they know the
whistle.
They know who that is. That's its name.
That's basically the name.
In John
10:es 2 and 3, it says Jesus is the he
here. He who enters by the door is the
shepherd of the sheep. To him the
doorkeeper
opens and the sheep hear his voice and
he calls his own sheep
by name.
You know that's that's kind of cool.
Apparently our name
matters to Jesus.
That's something
he respects it. I think he's going to
give us another name too later. But but
he he calls us all by our name.
That's interesting to me.
If he respects our name when it doesn't
even mean anything,
how much more should we respect his name
when it means something?
Wonderful counselor. Maybe that'll mean
something different to you next time you
think about it. Maybe you'll see how he
is the wonderful counselor giving you
excellent guidance and wonderful counsel
every day. Honor his name. So I I'm a
member of the church of Christ. Maybe
you're not. I'm a member of the church
of Christ.
And the reason is because we actually
want to honor Christ the name.
Uh when we baptize somebody, we baptize
them in the name of Jesus Christ.
We're trying to honor the name. When we
pray, you'll notice at the end of the
prayer, we'll say in Jesus' name.
Um in fact, you'll notice that we try to
do all things in his name. Why? To
respect the name.
It may seem silly to someone who's on
the outside,
but I think maybe wonderful counselor
may actually mean a little more to you.
Now, I hope you see he brings stability
to your life. He is your wonderful
counselor. I hope you remember that he
is the one that changes you by his
counsel. He is the wonderful counselor.
I hope you see that he's the one that
makes you confident that these things
are true because his word has
counseledled you that way. I hope that
you see now that he is the one that has
cured you of the mess you made of your
life.
If you're ready to fix your mess, I
can't do it. We'll have an invitation
here in a minute. That won't do it.
You're going to have to get in touch
with him. We'll help you. We'll help you
be obedient the best we can. But
ultimately, you got to encounter with
him. Won't you come if you need to while
we stand and while we
