There's a book and I'm going put it up
there. It's called The Way of the
Shepherd, Seven Secrets to Managing
Productive People. It's actually a
business book. Kevin Leman and William
Pentac
uh put this book out in 2004.
William Pentac uh interviewed Ted
McBride. And some of you may know who
Ted McBride is, a respected CEO. and
McBride is actually the source of the
material of the book in a real kind of
way and yet he's not at all. So
basically Pentac spoke to uh McBride in
an interview and he said he got this
information from one of his mentors who
was quite an eccentric but brilliant
professor that he doesn't name but the
principles he said are ancient and they
come from a shepherd. So I think that's
quite interesting that one of the uh
ideas in business management today comes
from shephering sheep. And so let me
walk you through these really quick.
I'll just give you those seven ideas.
Number one was know the condition of
your flock. Proverbs 27:23 be diligent
to know the state of your flocks and
attend to your flocks. So in that he
suggests you should follow the status of
your people as well as the status of
your work. Not just the work with the
people too and get to know the flock,
the sheep. Get to know them. Uh spend a
little time with them. Engage your
people on a regular basis. Uh keep your
eyes and your ears open. Ask questions.
Follow through. The second thing was
discover the shape of your sheep. It's
an interesting term and I'll explain
that in a second. Exodus 12 and verse 5,
your lambs shall be without blemish. So
he suggests your choice of sheep can
make flock management much easier or can
make it harder. You should start with as
healthy a sheep as you possibly can. And
when they are not healthy, work on that
deeply. And in that he talks about know
the shape. S h a p e the shape of your
sheep. And he says what you're supposed
to look at. And this is the people you
work with. Take into advantage and know
their strengths. That's the S. Know
their strengths. Know their heart.
That's the H. Know their attitude.
That's the A. Know their personality.
That's the P. And know their
experiences, that's the E. So know the
shape of your people or the shape of
your sheep. It's interesting. And then
thirdly, he says, "Help your sheep
identify with you." So you're going to
lead them. They need to know who you
are. John uh 10:14, "I am the good
shepherd and I know my sheep and am
known by my own." That was just read to
you. So he suggests that you should
build trust by modeling authenticity
and integrity and compassion. If you are
the person you should be, then they you
should set a high performance level
yourself and they should see that you
are really integrated into what's going
on. So, relentlessly communicate your
values and your sense of mission to them
and they will start to attract to that.
So, define the cause for your people and
then tell them how they fit into solving
that issue. And remember that shephering
is not just professional, it's personal.
That there's a relationship that goes on
between the shepherd and the sheep.
Fourthly, make your pastor a safe place.
He says John 10:11, I am the good
shepherd. The good shepherd gives his
life for the sheep. Going to take care
of them. So keep your people well
informed. Uh he says, infuse every
position with importance. Uh treat them
like everybody matters. uh callull those
who are constantly instigators of
trouble in the flock and regularly
rotate the the sheep to fresher
pastures. Give them fresher ideas.
Reassure the sheep by staying visible.
Don't just be gone and they never see
you. Don't give problems time to fester,
but rather address their fears, their
rivalries, their pests, their concerns,
their sicknesses as fast as possible.
You begin to see this actually would
work in a business, doesn't it? And so
the next thing he said was the staff of
direction. John 10 and verse4, he brings
out his own sheep. He goes before them
and the sheep follow them for they know
his voice. So know where you're going
and get out in front and lead. Sounds
familiar, doesn't it? And when
directing, use persuasion rather than
coercion. That makes more sense, doesn't
it? Give them freedom to move, but let
them know where the fences are. There is
a limit. Uh don't confuse the boundaries
though with bridles. They have to have
some freedom. When your people get in
trouble, go and get them out of that
trouble. and um remind your people that
failure isn't fatal, it's a part of
life. So that's what a shepherd's staff
is for. But more he says number six, he
says the rod of correction and proh
Psalms 23:4, your rod and your staff
comfort me. Interesting that things like
that would comfort you. Well, here's
why. Shepherds protect with the rod.
They stand in the gap. They fight for
you. Uh they correct with it. So
approach discipline as a teaching
opportunity he suggests in that book.
And then shepherds inspect which means
to regularly inquire about what they're
doing. If you expect you must inspect.
And then finally the heart of the
shepherd. John 10:15 I lay down my life
for the sheep.
And he suggests by that is shephering is
a lifestyle not a job.
So you guys who are thinking about
becoming an elder, this is not a hiring
position. This is not like a regular job
you're going for an interview to attain
to a position like that. Shephering is
not about a staff or rod. It's about a
man's heart. And shephering
is a case of a man who values the flock.
There it is. And would be willing to pay
the price for it. That's from that book.
That's interesting. But to take the
whole thing, I just thought thought it
was interesting that you'd take the idea
of shephering and put it into business
management. Don't you think that's
interesting? I don't think that's what
we're about, but I think it's an
interesting concept. I want to look at
three ideas today. Just three. The
protocols of a good shepherd. What are
the protocols? If you have your Bibles
open, reread with me if you will, or you
can read what's up there. John 10 1-6.
Most assuredly I say to you, he who does
not enter the sheepfold, I'll explain
that in a minute, what the sheepfold is,
because you may not be aware of that,
enter the sheepfold by the door. There
was doors to sheepfolds. But climb up
some other way, the same is a thief and
a robber. Only thieves and robbers go
over the wall. But he who enters by the
door is the shepherd of the sheep. To
him the doorkeeper opens. So you have
somebody that watches the door, locks
it, and may stay with the sheep at
night. And the sheep hear his voice. The
sheep are ready to go as soon as they
hear him. And he calls his own sheep by
name and leads them out. So as soon as
the doorkeeper opens, they're ready to
come. And when he brings out his own
sheep, he goes before them. That means,
remember what we talked about last week,
the shepherd doesn't follow the sheep.
The shepherd leads the sheep. He walks,
calls, they follow him, and the sheep
follow him, for they know his voice.
Verse five, yet they will by no means
follow a stranger, but will flee from
him, for they do not know the voice of a
stranger. Jesus said this illustration,
but they did not understand the things
which he spoke. How often does that
happen? You teach something, teach
something, teach something, and nobody
understands what in the world you're
talking about. Happens a lot. Actually,
more than you might realize. So a good
shepherd knows how to protect his sheep
by sheepfold. That was a walled in area.
They put the animals in at night and it
wasn't a little wall. If it was a little
wall, the fox, the animals would climb
over. It's a big wall. It's almost like
a house. They put them in that and they
keep them at night and it'd have a door
on it. A guy would stay with them and
lock it just in case something did make
it over the wall. So that's a sheepfold.
They protect their sheep. The shepherd
doesn't always stay there all night, but
the doorkeeper would. The shepherd knows
how to call his sheep by their names.
You got to know who your people are, and
you got to know their name. And the
shepherd knows how to lead by his voice.
Now, you may remember talked about this
a little bit last week that sheep can't
see very well. And we'll get back to
that in a moment. So, they go by
hearing. That's why it's so important to
speak to them. They recognize the voice
of the shepherd so they don't see too
far ahead of them. Says something about
us maybe. I don't know. But so those are
the protocols to protect, to call, to
lead. Second lesson,
the purposes of a good shepherd. What
are the things he's supposed to
accomplish?
Verse seven.
Excuse me. I'm okay. Don't worry about
me. I'm fine. It's just leftover
drainage. Verse 7. Then Jesus said to
them again, most assuredly I say to you,
I am the door of the sheep. Verse eight,
all whoever came before me are thieves
and robbers, but the sheep did not hear
them. Verse nine, I am the door. Second
time he says that, if anyone enters by
me, he's like the door of the sheepfold.
If anyone enters by me, he will be saved
and will go in and out and find pasture.
Okay. Verse 10. The thief does not come
except to steal and to kill and destroy.
That's why thieves come. I've come that
they might have life and that they might
have it more abundantly. Why would
someone steal a sheep? To steal it. Yes.
Maybe to have a sheep, possibly to kill
the sheep. Real possibility there and to
destroy it. Yes, absolutely. So maybe
just to tear down what you've got. So a
good shepherd gives these things because
this is his purpose uh protection to
prevent the sheep stealing. That's an
important thing. And you may think,
well, what does that have anything to do
with church? There are people all the
time trying to steal sheep. You don't
you don't know that. You don't know that
people try to sway you away from here.
Happens all the time. We have it all the
time. Not some of the time. All the
time. There's always somebody thinks
they know what's right. And the rest of
us are not too smart. We haven't figured
it out yet. Don't know that you're
actually being duped. That this is not
really a great church. That the great
church is out there. Let me tell you
something about that great church out
there. It's just like this one except
it's got a different set of problems.
There it is.
Quit thinking somebody's discovered, you
know, mercury.
No, it's not the case. Second thing is
pasture. They give pastures. That means
to prevent sheep killing. You got to
protect the keep the sheep from being
killed too, folks. And then you got to
give them plenty. It says give them
abundance. Sheep need to be able to eat
pretty much all day long. They'll eat it
all the way down to the nub. So, the
marks of a good shepherd
is they follow the shepherd's protocols
and then they follow the shepherd's
purposes. But let's go one last point.
This going to be a hopefully quick for
you here today, but I got something at
the end for you. John chapter 10 vers
11.
I am the good shepherd. The good
shepherd gives his life for the sheep.
Verse
12. But a hireling,
he who is not the shepherd, one who does
not own the sheep, sees the wolf coming.
Oh yeah, you can see him coming. Sees
the wolf coming and leaves the sheep and
flees. And the wolf catches the sheep,
scatters them. That's not what a
shepherd does. Verse 13, the hireling
flees because he is a hirling and does
not care about the sheep. Verse 14, I am
the good shepherd and I know my sheep
and I'm known by my own. Verse 15,
as the father knows me, even so I know
the father and I lay down my life for
the sheep. That means he takes on the
wolf.
16
and other sheep I have which are not of
this fold.
That's interesting. Them also I bring.
That's you and me by the way. You do
know that, right? Let's talk about you
and me. Us Gentiles. We are the sheep
that were not of that fold.
Them also I will bring and they will
hear my voice. We hear his voice. Amen.
And there will be one flock and one
shepherd. Praise God. Verse 17.
Therefore, my father loves me because I
lay down my life that I may take it
again. No one takes it from me,
but I lay it down on myself.
I have power to lay it down and I have
power to take it again. This is the
command I received from my father. This
wasn't an option. This was a command.
You picked up on that, right? He was
commanded to do this.
There's an interesting thought in it.
You thought he volunteered.
So a good shepherd is willing to risk
to face the wolves.
How much is life?
Is life.
Good shepherd's willing to sacrifice to
save his sheep. Whatever it takes.
And a good shepherd's willing to die to
have other sheep.
That's interesting. More sheep.
So these are the marks. The good
shepherd follow the good shepherd and
see his passions. Those are the
passions. He really is passionate about
this.
I know you think you know what elders
are like. If you ain't been one, you
don't. You can go to that class all you
want in Dwight's class and you will not
know what it's like until you are one.
You will not because it's never the
same. And every single elder has a
different experience. There's no such
thing as two elders having the same
experience. It just doesn't happen.
Well, we're all a member of the same
elership. Oh, well, you think you've
experienced everything the other one's.
Oh, no you haven't. It's all different.
And if there were a million shepherds
right here, I guarantee every one of
them's got a different experience. Every
one of them. It's not going to be the
same.
So quit thinking I got it figured out.
No you don't. No you don't. That's like
ministry. I got it figured out. I know
what it's like to be a minister. No you
don't.
No you don't. Cuz I haven't figured it
out and I've been doing it nearly 50
years. So no you don't. So you may think
that sheep
and you I'll get into the eldership
because I I know so much. I know so much
and I'll be a good shepherd because I
know so much and the sheep don't know
stuff and they need to be guided. You
may think that sheep aren't that smart.
That's not true. Uh they're actually
pretty smart animals. I know that comes
as a shock. I thought they were dumb. I
was told years ago they weren't too
smart. That's not really true. It's not
true at all. In fact, I've done a little
research. Research indicates they have
respectable cognitive abil abilities.
They have strong facial recognition.
They get up close to you. They know
exactly who you are. They've seen you
before. They don't care what you dress
like. You can grow a beard, whatever.
They know who you are moment they see
you up close.
And then if they hear your voice, they
really know you if they've known you at
all. They problem solve. That sounds
crazy for sheep. They recall complex
task. Very good at that, actually. They
exhibit emotional intelligence.
Uh they form social bonds.
They experience fear, joy, and grief.
Kind of like a dog.
But sheep are far weaker and far more
vulnerable than almost any animal that
we raise. There aren't a lot of animals
weaker or more vulnerable than they are
because they're so visible. You can't
miss them and so predators find them
easily. but they're very shortsighted
and as a result of that that makes them
extremely weak because something can
creep up on them pretty easily.
So I want to talk about though
shephering one last thing and then I'll
be done.
Doug Bender
Doug Bender.
Doug Bender as a church planter, he's a
preacher and as a blogger. I want to
read his blog and then that'll be pretty
much the end of the lesson. Okay. I
don't do this very often, so I don't
read too much. I'm that good of a
reader, so that's part of the reason.
Not like David does good reading. All
right, here we go. Few years ago, I
bought some sheep and became a modern
shepherd. And as odd as it sounds, I've
learned some simple and vital truths
through my sheep that helps me brush
away some of life's weight.
I had my sheep for about two weeks when
I learned the truth of this quote from
Jesus. Every day, multiple times each
day, I feed my sheep. I give them hay
and top off of their water. But for the
first couple of weeks, my sheep never
came near me.
Then one day, they were at the top of
the hill chewing on some grass when I
came calling. They heard me, and
something inside them had changed.
They had learned from my daily feedings
that I was actually their caretaker and
a member of their flock.
So this day when I called, they ran to
me. They leaped and jumped for joy. They
let out loud buzz. Calling back to me.
They ran full speed toward me, not away
as if their life depended on it. That
picture of them running with absolute
and genuine joy is forever stamped in my
mind. When Jesus said, "My sheep listen
to my voice." This is the picture he had
in mind. It's not like a dog that comes
if you yell loud enough or a child that
comes if they decide they want to.
This is like a sheep. And when they hear
the shepherd's voice, they come full of
joy and anticipation,
trusting the heart of their shepherd to
care for them. I now know
I can run to Jesus like that.
I am the good shepherd. The good
shepherd lays down his life for the
sheep. I also have heard this line from
Jesus countless times as I grew up in
church. But I didn't understand his true
essence until a pack of coyotes
came through my farm.
I was in the kitchen doing dishes.
I had shorts, a t-shirt, and socks on.
It was winter
and dark, and the ground was wet with
rain.
And I heard in the distance the sound of
a pack of coyotes.
It's a loud and rockous sound full of
ferocity and raw energy.
And I had in my field my flock of sheep
with two newborn baby lambs.
Instinct
completely overtook my body.
I dropped the dish in my hand
and jetted out the door in my socks.
I ran through the mud, the rain, and the
cold, but never felt a thing.
I had no real pain. I only had pictures
of wild coats eating my baby lambs
overwhelmed my imagination. And I ran
past my woodshed where I picked up my
axe on the way. I didn't know that I
what I would find when I reached the top
of my hill. But I was ready to throw my
body and my axe into the middle of it.
But when I got there, I could see my
fence had held, no coyotes had gotten
in, and my lambs were safe.
Jesus said he offered his life to save
ours. But I often wonder if it was a
chore for him to do this. Did he prefer
not to, but somehow felt he needed to?
But now I understood.
I ran in my socks in the mud and the
rain with nothing but an axe to face a
pack of wild coyotes.
And I did this without a second thought.
Why?
Because I love my sheep.
And that's what a shepherd does.
The Lord is our shepherd.
We don't need to worry. walk through a
dark valley.
The Lord's given himself for us.
If you dare, and I mean it just the way
I'm saying it, if you dare take on
becoming a shepherd,
you got to have that same instinct.
The only thing that matters
is the sheep,
not you.
We don't need any stars. We don't need
any star elders.
We need to take care of the sheep.
There it is. And we ought to love each
other that way. That we drop everything
for the one next to us.
That's what he did.
He dropped it all.
Ran with abandon to a cross. Would
you not want to follow a Lord like that?
If you haven't given your life to him,
this is a perfect opportunity. Won't you
come while we stand and while we sing?
