Now, in our text, we're going to be
studying about the vine. This usually
refers to a grape vine in the
scriptures. And as a result, the pro
product of a grape vine is grapes. And
so, we are asked to be fruitbearers uh
like branches that would produce grapes.
So in that process, it should be a
humbling process for us and we should
never act like we're above our raisin.
Jesus,
some of you will get that later. Jesus
in our text is literally spiritually
the vine.
When Jesus says, "I am," he does that
eight times. We studied about the light.
He doesn't mean it just
representatively or metaphorically.
He means it literally spiritually,
which is a different thing entirely.
I'll talk more about that as we get
along. But he is the divine
vine
and we are literally spiritually part of
that vine
as his branches and we are to produce
fruit. Charles Ryrie.
Uh, most of you probably will not
remember him, but he was a part of the
Ryrie Study Bible. Uh, he is a
theologian in his own right and a
professor of systematic theology in
Dallas Theological, but he was also the
editor of the Ryrie Study Bible with
10,000 explanatory notes. Now, I'll just
tell you, I don't care for the Bible. I
don't agree with a lot of the notes, but
you can't say that he didn't study hard.
It was came out in 1978 when I was a
simple um
clerk in a Bible bookstore and so I knew
it well. 2 million copies have been
sold. He also uh had a book called So
Great Salvation. They came back out out
in ' 89. And in that book, he wrote
this. every Christian will bear
spiritual fruit
somewhere
sometime somehow. And then he explains
these three concepts and I paraphrase
them here that a believer's fruit will
not always be in season and productive.
So what he's trying to say is
you can go through barren times that
you're not producing a lot. So if you're
going through a barren time, that
doesn't mean you're no longer a
believer. You can have barren times. And
a believer's fruit will not always be
outwardly evident. So if you're trying
to evaluate the people around you or the
people you're married to or the people
in your family, you often can't do that
because fruit can be produced when you
cannot see it. That happens as well. And
then a believer's fruit will not always
fit my list of what a good fruit is. So
just because I have my list of what I
expect out of other people does not mean
that I have encompassed all the
discussion of that idea. Disciples, the
disciples of Jesus are called to be
fruitful or fruit bearers. We are to
produce fruit. What's interesting is
that we are called to produce fruit. But
we are not called to be in the words of
Jesus to be meaty or to be bready or to
be milky. Why does he use the term
fruit? I think these things that have
been suggested make a lot of sense that
fruit is healthy, it's sweet, which says
something about what we're supposed to
be. It is living and it's whole.
That's one concept. And I think you need
to think on that just a little bit. We
don't really have time for that too much
right now, but that'd be something for
you to progress on. I will suggest that
those who raise fruit trees, which is
different than a vine, but nonetheless,
it suggests some things that they do
that parallel what's in this text to
produce more fruit. They suggest
pruning, which is suggested in this
text, which by the way, the word pruning
is not the word pruning as we think of
it in the text. It literally means
cleansing. It is to clean it. So,
pruning and feeding of a tree with
compost, not just fertilizer. Adding
ecosystem plants, mulching can help a
great deal. Watering obviously. Training
the branches. I didn't know they did
this. They trained the branches to hang
down and not to be up in fruit bearing
trees. And then um not just that kind of
thing, but they trap harmless what would
be for other plants harmless things, but
they don't want them to eat on their
plant. So those are some things that
they say they do. I'm going to introduce
something that I didn't know they did in
fruit bearing trees in just a moment. So
stay with me in just a second. I was
unaware. But here's what we want to look
at. We're going to look at three themes
in this text that I think if you see
them, you'll see the fruit of the vine
and what it is. And I think there's a
lot of mistaken understanding about
this. So to expand on your thinking on
what the fruit of the vine is, we
normally refer to the Lord's supper when
we use that term, but in this text, it's
an entirely different thing. Number one,
the innate characteristics of the fruit
of the vine. Look at verses one, two,
and three. I am the true vine. Not just
symbolically, but spiritually I really
am. He's saying, "And my father is the
vine dresser." That means he's taking
care of what I'm doing. Verse two, every
branch in me that does not bear fruit,
he takes away. And every branch that
bears fruit, he prunes. That literally
is the word cleanses that it may bear
more fruit. You are already clean. Now
you understand the use of the word clean
in the next verse. You are already clean
because of the word which I've spoken to
you. So Jesus disciples were already
cleansed. They were already pruned. They
were already being separated from things
that might prevent them from being
productive fruitbearers. That was
already happening. But more was coming.
And though you've been cleansed, more's
coming your way. I promise you, you're
not done with being pruned. Uh David
Davidson or Dennis Davidson uh wrote
about how to dwell in Jesus love in
2009. He talks about um orchards and
orchard experts. This is interesting.
This is the part that I think you ought
to listen close into. I didn't know this
and this caught me by surprise. It says
orchard experts say occasionally a fruit
tree will give all of its energy to
growing wood and leaves but little or no
energy to bearing fruit. This happens by
the way they say in all plants. That's
the reason for pruning. To correct this,
the farmer takes an axe and makes a deep
wound in its trunk close to the ground.
That severe procedure almost always
produces a change. The next year the
tree gives an excellent yield called the
fruit of suffering. Often times God uses
a trial as an axe or suffering for a
pruning knife so that we may stop
channeling all of our energies in the
pursuit of temporal things. Sorrow,
tribulation,
ill health and disappointment have a way
of stimulating spiritual growth and
fruitfulness. Our attention is then
redirected toward eternal things and we
produce the fruit of righteousness that
glorifies his name. You ever think about
that?
So the father who is the vine dresser
and we are those branches. He chasens
us. He cleanses us. He prunes us. He
allows us to move through sacrificial
suffering to produce the fruit of
righteousness. Do you really believe
that? Of course I believe that. Hebrews
12 and 11 says this. No chastening seems
to be joyful for the present but painful
afterward. It yields the peaceable fruit
of righteousness to those who have been
trained by it. Oh yes, it happens. And
it is designed to get you back on track
of what you should be thinking about. So
in this point, we're going to walk
through these quickly, so don't get
upset about this, but the fruit of the
vine called, and listen, I'm going to
repeat this. The fruit of the vine
called Jesus,
you just pick up on what I said there.
The fruit of the vine called Jesus has
five innate characteristics.
So its innate characteristic is first
superlative. That means as Matthew 3:10,
the ax is laid at the root. Every tree
that does not bear good fruit is cut
down. Here's the point. He produces good
fruit.
That means if we are in him we produce
the superlative good
comes from us. Its innate characteristic
is also selfsame.
In Genesis 1 and vers 11 it says let the
earth bring forth a fruit tree that
yields fruit according to its kind.
Listen a Christian that is a branch only
produces the selfsame stuff. If we
produce something other than is Jesus,
we're not doing our work and we're not a
part of this. Its innate characteristic
is seeded. Now, most people go to this
to the idea they're all about the
evangelism thing. We'll get back to
that. That's not really the thought in
this text. In Genesis 1 11 and 12, it
says repeats this statement whose seed
is in itself. When you produce a grape,
the seed is in it. You produce an apple,
the seed is in it. So the seed is in
itself. It will take care of the
reproduction problem.
It does that. The fruit is not the thing
you're focusing on when you're focusing
on evangelism. Stay with me though.
We'll get back to that thought in a
minute. In Genesis 1 and verse 29, its
innate characteristic is sustenance. The
purpose of a grape is food. Genesis 1
and verse 29. I have given you every
tree whose fruit fruit yields seed for
food. Fruit is for food, sustenance. It
maintains those who are alive, all
living things. And its innate
characteristic is seasonal. It's an
important lesson. Psalm 1:3, like a tree
planted by the rivers brings forth its
fruit in its season. Now we we are to
speak the word in season out of season
but there is a seasonal work that
happens within us and it isn't constant
all the time but here's the point I want
you to see this fruit
hear it now the fruit this innate
characteristics of this fruit is of the
vine and Jesus is the vine
don't miss that point you will
understand that more as we walk through
this keep listening
and keep pondering that thought. Number
next, the identifiable confirmations of
the fruit of the vine. Listen to verses
4-7. Abide in me and I in you. As the
branch cannot bear fruit of itself
unless it abides in the vine. That's
obvious if you know anything about
plants. Neither can you unless you abide
in me. So this is not figurative. This
is literal spiritual verse 5. I am the
vine, you are the branches. He who
abides in me and I am him bears much
fruit. For without me you can do
nothing. If anyone does not abide in me,
he's cast out as a branch and is
withered. That's what happens to them.
And they gather them and throw them in
the fire. We'll get back to that in just
a second. And they are burned. Verse
seven. If you abide in me and my words
abide in you, you will ask what you
desire and it shall be done for you. So
there is a prophetic utterance message
right in this text. Don't miss it. This
identifiable concept of the unfaithful
nation of Israel is bouncing out in this
text.
They had been God's divine vine. Well, I
I've given you a ton of scriptures in
your outline. Basically, you'd see that
there's just many references to Israel
being this vine.
But after rejecting the law in the Old
Testament, Babylon burned the temple and
all the meeting places according to
Psalm 74.
This is not a figurative idea about
burning the branches.
He's literal here. And then after the
rejecting of the vine, the divine vine
that now we're talking about, which is
Jesus himself,
Rome burned down all of Israel,
including the temple and the city.
It's not a figurative thing. He's being
very literal here. Now, there's an
application for each of us even to this
day, but you got to understand the
context and see it.
this part of it. What you what you need
to see now is these five identifiable
confirmations of the fruit of the vine
that we call Jesus. And I am bringing
you back that the fruit of the vine is
Jesus. Stay with me.
It's identifiably confirmed by abiding.
We know that it's the fruit of Jesus
because it abides. John 8:31. If you
abide in my word, you are my disciples
indeed. But only if you stick with it.
Only if you stick with it. It's
identifiably confirmed by teaching.
Matthew 7 15- 20. Verse 15, beware of
false prophets who come to you in
sheep's clothing, but inwardly are
raving wolves. Verse 16, you will know
them by their fruits. You will know them
by what they teach, what they say.
what comes out of their mouths and
you'll either know it's from Jesus
or some other source.
It's identifiably confirmed by loving
John 13:35.
By this all will know that you are my
disciples if you have love for one
another. What's the point? They'll see
the love I have that I poured into you.
That is again identifying where this
fruit really comes from which is Jesus.
It is identifiably confirmed by obeying
and listen to this. This includes him as
well. But 1 John 2:3 says, "By this we
know that we know him if we keep his
commandments." That's John speaking. By
our obedience we know that we know him.
We know that this is Jesus
coming out in us. you disobedient.
That's not Jesus coming out. Jesus did
everything the father commanded him to
do. It's identifiably confirmed by this
feeling that he talks about. 1 John
4:13, by this we know that we abide in
him and he in us because he has given us
of his spirit. There is a spirit change
within us. And then it in Ephesians
5:18, it talks about uh being filled
with the spirit, singing with the arch
of the Lord. You don't sing in church.
It's questionable about whether or not
you have the Holy Spirit.
Romans chapter 8, you don't want to be
found on the day of judgment without the
Holy Spirit. It's not about how you
sound, it's about whether or not it's
coming out of you. In Galatians 5 22-23,
the fruit of the spirit is love, joy,
peace, patience, kindness, goodness,
faithfulness, gentleness, and
self-control. If those kind of
attributes are not coming out of you,
you haven't been filled.
And it's John 1:14, John 3:34. Jesus
was full of grace and truth. If grace
and truth does not come out of you, it's
questionable about whether or not you're
full of Jesus.
So these show us the identifiable
confirmations of the fruit of the vine
within you. See, what's coming from that
vine flows into the branch. We think
it's all about that grape, but I'm
telling you, it's what's coming through
the branch and what you're doing with
your life.
Number three,
the invariable consequences or
consistencies
of the fruit of the vine. What are the
consistent things we should see here? If
you can't miss it, how he says this over
and over again. Start in verse seven. If
you abide in me and my words abide, you
pick up that word abide in you, that
means dwell in or remain in, you will
ask what you desire and it shall be done
for you. Why doesn't God answer my
prayer? Verse eight, by this my father
is glorified that you bear much fruit.
Oh well, that's all just about winning
souls. We'll come back to that in just a
second. So you will be my disciples.
Verse nine, as the father loves me, I
also have loved you. Abide in my love.
If you keep my commandments, you will
abide in my love, just as I have kept my
father's commandments. Again, like I
said a moment ago, and abide in his
love. Verse 11, these things I have
spoken to you that you that my joy may
remain or abide in you and that your joy
may be full. Here's the deal. The great
commission had not been given yet. So
everybody that goes to this text,
especially if you're highly
evangelistic, you want to go to this
text and prove that we are all supposed
to be producing fruit and all of that is
all about baptizing people. Uh stay with
me just a second. I'm not saying that's
not a part of his thinking here, but I
don't think that's the thrust of this at
all. I think it's a maybe a sideline,
but Matthew 28 had not been spoken yet.
Go into all the world. Mark 16:15 and
16. It's just not there yet. So
soulwinning was a part of what they were
to do. They would go to every city in
Jerusalem and they would talk to them
and tell them to repent. But let me help
you understand the focal fruit of true
disciplehip is more than winning a soul.
But at this point the conclusion, what
is the fruit that Jesus disciple
displayed? What was it that they were to
display? What was it that they were to
produce?
They were to stick with him.
They were to listen to him. They were to
do what he did, do what he told them to
do, and be like him. They were to be his
apprentices. The fruit that he's wanting
them produce is him.
I want you to produce what I'm doing.
Everything.
Not just win a soul or baptize somebody.
If that's all we do, then all we are is
a cult.
But if we're about Jesus and we're to
reproduce Jesus, because that's what
he's calling us, true, then we begin to
understand that the fruit of the vine is
Jesus
and that's what he wants us to produce.
And there's invariable
consistencies about this fruit that you
should recognize that if you're really
looking at somebody being fruitful, it
isn't he baptized somebody.
Oh, there boy, he's really There's the
real Christian. I've seen some people
baptize people that I'm not even sure if
they were Christians.
You can have a hateful attitude and
baptize somebody.
You can barely go to church and baptize
somebody. In fact, you can baptize
somebody and mean nothing. I've been
dunked under water when I was a kid,
right? In the pool. No, we didn't have a
pool. It was in a lake. An invariable
cons consistency is study. John 15:7,
"If you abide in me and my words abide
in you," folks, this idea about never
been in a Bible class or never picking
up your Bible and claiming that you
really are producing the fruit of God,
you can't produce the fruit of God
without the word of God.
It invariably consistent with praying,
you cannot be a greater Christian if you
throw one prayer up once a week. Just
telling you you can't go there. John
15:7, you will ask what you desire and
it shall be done for you. Is that your
experience in praying or is it he never
does what I ask
there? There's a message in that. He
says it. I didn't say it. There's a
message in that
invariably consistent with representing
who he is. John 15:8. By this my father
is glorified. When you do his things, he
gets the glory. If you get the glory,
that's not the point.
It invariably is consistent with
producing. John 15:8, "By this my father
is glorified that you bear much fruit,
so you'll be my disciples." What does
that mean? You'll be my disciples.
You'll be like me. That's when we know
you're producing much fruit. Because
Jesus was way up here. When you start
behaving like he behaved, when you think
like he thinks, talk like he talks,
reproduce him, that's when the father's
glorified, and everybody knows you're
his disciple. Not until you're liking to
people go, "Hey, that looks like a
disciple of Jesus." It changes. And then
invariably consistent with loving John
15:9 and 10, as the father loved me, I
also have loved you. abide in my love.
If you keep my commandments, you will
abide in my love, just as I've kept my
father's commandments and abide in his
love. There's something about love. You
can't separate the concept of Jesus from
love. And this idea that you can be a
hateful Christian is out. There's no
such thing. There's just no such thing
as a Christian. If we're like Christ, if
we're going to be like Jesus, we got to
be all about love. People ought to know
that they we love them. Amen. They just
should know it. Even if they're mad at
us. Even if they're mad at us. Even if
you're a little mad at them. Absolutely.
You still love them. I spank my kids,
been mad at them, but I still love them.
Amen. You can be mad and still love
somebody.
So, let's
understand that the fruit of the vine
shows us this invariable
consistencies.
That's the summary of the whole thing. I
want to take you to another passage and
I hope you get this. Matthew 26:26-29.
I'm just breaking around reading a
little bit here and there. Jesus took
bread. Y'all read this Lord's supper.
You listen to it. It's funny how
sometimes you can read something over
and over and over and over and over
again and miss it.
Jesus took bread, blessed it, broke it,
and said, "Take, eat.
This represents my body."
Then he took the cup, saying, "Drink.
This represents my blood of the new
covenant. I will not drink of the fruit
of the vine until when I drink it new
with you. That's not what it says, is
it?
That's what we always say at every
Lord's supper. We throw that in because
we're scared of saying what it just
says.
Because we're scared of
transubstantiation, which by the way,
most of us don't even know what that is.
Here's the truth.
It's not symbolic.
It's literal, but not literal physical.
It is literal spiritually.
When he says, "I am the vine," he's not
saying he's a weed. He's not a physical
weed,
but he's literally spiritually the vine.
And you're literally spiritually the
branches. When he says, "I am the
light," he's not saying he's a light
bulb. He's saying he's literally
spiritually the light to us when he says
I'm the bread. He's not saying you can
take a bite off of me. He's saying I'm
literally spiritually the bread that
feeds you. In this text when he says
this is my body. He's saying this is
literally spiritually my body when you
drink this cup. This is literally
spiritually
the fruit of the vine which is what he
is. The point is that Jesus
is our fruit.
Not symbolically.
Do you hear it? It's not symbolic.
It is real.
He is the fruit.
If we aren't reproducing Jesus,
what are we doing?
If you should see Jesus in me,
that's what fruitfulness is of someone
who is an apprentice
of Christ.
Any other fruit is poison.
When I produce my fruit, that's poison.
When I reproduce Rex Dutton and the
Dutton family and you get to see a a
piece of that, you should spit it out.
But if I can give you Jesus for just a
moment,
that's worth reproducing.
The rest of it will kill you.
In the Caribbean and Central America and
South America and even here in South
Florida
is a little beachy sort of tree. It has
uh on it what looks about like an apple.
It's a greenish yellow kind of fruit.
Looks a lot like apples.
And if you see it, because it kind of
looks a little bit like an apple tree if
you see it. We have them here in
Florida, but they're mainly down toward
Miami. Not so much up this way. It needs
to be in a little bit warmer climate,
but a little bit further south. If you
see it, you might be tempted. Well, we
might eat that. Don't.
Well, I I'll pull it. Don't. Well, I'll
sit under the tree. Don't. Well, I I'll
just lay here and play with it. No,
don't. Don't touch it. Don't sit there.
It is the manel tree. Its other name is
the little apple of death. The tree of
death. You know, Punch Deleon, they
believed he was killed by this apple in
1521. They used to use it on the points
of darts here, some of the natives did,
and shot animals with it. Nicole uh
Strickland
in Tobago took a bite of one. Here's
what she wrote about it. Listen to what
happened. Rashley, I took a bite from
this fruit and found it pleasantly
sweet. My friend also ptook.
Moments later, we noticed a strange
peppery feeling in our mouths.
which gradually progressed to a burning,
tearing
sensation and tightness of the throat.
The symptoms worsened over a couple of
hours. So, it got increasingly worse for
at least two hours until we could barely
swallow food because the excruciating
pain that we were in. Over the next
eight hours, our oil symptoms slowly
began to subside. Recounting our
experience though to some locals listed
horror and incredul incredul. I never
could say that word but you know they
were incredible. Such was the fruitful
poisoning reputation among the people
locally. It was so poisonous
that if you sit under the tree you can
get a rash just from sitting touching
it. You can not only get a rash, but if
it rains and the drip drops on you, this
milky substance out of the vine, it'll
create a blister wherever it touches
you.
You can't even let it touch you. A small
drop will form a blister. You say,
"Well, we need to destroy them." If you
burn them, it's worse. If you burn them,
you can be overcome by the smell. And
worse than that, it can literally
disfigure your eyes. He can change the
genetic code of your eyes and destroy
your vision. You do not want to mess
with this tree. Here's the point.
There's some bad fruit out there. And
I'm one of them. And guess what? You are
too. And you are too. We don't need you
reproducing you.
We don't need a church full of you.
We don't need a church full of me.
Folks, the fruit of the vine is Jesus.
And we need to reproduce that. And when
we reproduce that, people will flock
from all over the place to come to be a
part of a church to find out how to
reproduce Jesus.
If you're here and you've never given
your life to Jesus, don't listen to
anything I said. Listen to everything he
said.
Follow him.
We'll help you every way we can if you
come.
