So strange as it may sound,
it is the unbelievers right now around
that don't go to church
that are grieving the decline of the
church. I find that strange that that
just sounds wrong, doesn't it? But it's
actually is the case.
And from the reading, I want you to hear
some of the things that are being
written right now. Derek Thompson, who's
an agnostic journalist, he's lamenting
the decline of the church and the
attendance of the churches in America.
And he wrote in the Atlantic the
following. Maybe religion, for all of
its faults, works a bit like a retaining
wall to hold back the dis destabilizing
pressures of America. hyper
individualism which threatens to swell
and spill over in its absence.
Jonathan Halt
uh social psychologist
uh wrote the ancient anxious generation.
Here's what he said about what's
happening.
Many Americans have developed a new
relationship with a technology that is
the diabolical opposite of a religious
ritual. The smartphone to stare into a
piece of glass at our hands is to be
removed from our bodies to skim our
attention from one piece of
the next. Digital life is disembodied.
Asynchronism,
shallow and solitary
religious ritual puts us in our body
requiring some kind of movement that
marks the activity as a devotional.
Christians kneel, Muslims prostrate, and
Jews pray. Religious ritual also fixes
us in time, forces us to set aside an
hour or a day for prayer, reflection, or
separation from habit. Finally,
religious ritual often requires that we
make contact with the sacred in the
presence of other people. I wonder if
forgoing organized religion, an isolated
country, has discarded an old and proven
source of ritual at a time when we most
need it. It took decades for Americans
to lose religion. It might take decades
to understand the entirety of what we've
lost.
Joseph Botum is also writing on the same
subject in the hollowing out of an
American church in 2024. He wrote this.
The decline of the church in America is
posing tremendous cultural problems and
sociologists are beginning to sound the
alarm. Once upon a time, America was a
land filled with churches dotting the
leafy streets of small towns and major
cities alike. In 1965,
churches affiliated with mainline
denominations as Baptists,
Episcopalians, Lutherans, Methodists,
and Presbyterians claimed around 50% of
the American population. However, by
2020, this number had dwindled to a mere
9%.
This dramatic decline is one of the
largest sociological changes in American
history, impacting institutions that
were once central to the nation. The
result is undeniable. We are living in
an age of spiritual anxiety. Some
mainline Protestants left for
evangelical churches and others for
Catholicism. But much of that decline
came from the people who simply felt
that their politics gave them the moral
satisfaction they needed. As a result,
people are desperate for meaning,
latching on to fleeting political
movements and slogans in search of
purpose. And now their children are in
the street without any satisfaction at
all. Spiritually anxious, they react to
each short-lived bit of political
hoopla, as though it were the trumpet of
Armageddon. Desperate for meaning, they
latch on to anything that gives the
exciting pleasure of seeming revolution
or revolutionary. No matter how little
they understand it or perform actions,
they meaningfully affect them. Shouting
slogans, they ache for the unity of a
congregation singing hymns. What
Protestantism once gave, they have no
more. a nationdefining pattern of
marriage and children, a feeling of
belonging, a belief in providence, a
sense of patriotism. The danger in all
this comes from the fact that the
apocalypse is self-fulfilling.
If everything in public life is elevated
to worldthreatening danger, if there is
no meaningful private life to which to
retreat, then all manners and even
morals must be set aside in the name of
higher causes and opponents quickly come
to feel they must respond. Similarly,
cataclysmic rhetoric and actions must
come.
Thus in a society
you need to understand the importance of
a church
it cannot be overstated.
It's been long known but even people who
don't go to church are beginning to
realize it. Martin Luther said apart
from the church salvation is impossible.
Do you believe that? I do.
John Calvin wrote, "Everyone's a
traitor, an apostate from religion who
perversely withdraws from any Christian
society which preserves the true
ministry of the word and sacraments.
You're a traitor if you leave it."
That's what he said.
USA Today back in 94 said 48%
of churchgoers attend once a month.
The pastoral epistles
were written, as was read a moment ago,
to tell us how to behave in the church,
not in the world.
In the church.
We are to be in the church and to behave
in the church. That's what it says. 1
Timothy 3 again, these things I write to
you, verse 15, so that you may know how
you ought to conduct yourself in the
house of God.
The Greek word for conduct or behave
that's used here describes a man a
little more thoroughly than just, you
know, he's behaving right this moment.
He's sitting in church. It describes a
man's walk, his conversation of life,
his character, and his relationships
with others because all those things
matter. Church membership is not
significant without character, without
relationships that you're supposed to
have with one another. Just to be a
member of this could be substituted with
a member of anything.
But congregations are bodies of friends.
friends with God and friends with one
another. Else it's not a congregation.
Else it's not a body of Christ. And it
doesn't make the statement that's needed
in our society today. You want to fix
America? Start here.
Fix this.
Be what you need to be here. So, with
that in mind, I want to look at four
Greek words. And I'm not a Greek guy.
You know that I try not to talk about
Greek too much, but uh because I can't
speak English. And so, I try. But so,
we're going to look at four Greek words
this morning that I think speak volumes
to u what we need to be thinking about.
Number one, the church is to be the
household of God. that says, "These
things I write to you,
though I hope to come to you shortly,
but if I am delayed, I write so that you
may know how you ought to conduct
yourself in the house of God." The house
or the household of God. It's the word
oos in the Greek.
And so, foremost, the church is to be
family.
And if you don't feel that way about us,
you need to find a church where you can
or you need to change your attitude
or you need to work on it
because we're to be a family. Not kind
of, we're family.
That's it.
uh
Rear Admiral Sir Horatio Nelson after a
victory
uh he wrote Lord Howell and he said I
had the happiness because he's been
congratulating on his victory. He said I
had the happiness to command a band of
brothers. Said the reason we won is they
stuck together.
William Shakespeare said it really well.
You probably have heard this speech. I
won't repeat the whole speech of the
feast of Crisen when King Henry is
trying to encourage his small number to
take on a larger number. Says from this
day to the end of the world. But we in
it shall be remembered. We few, we happy
few, we band of brothers. For he today
that sheds his blood with me shall be my
brethren.
The church is to be a band of brothers
and sisters, a family. It's what it's to
be. Here's what that means to me. Fired,
retired, or expired, I will always be
your brother
and you will always be mine.
I will not always be your preacher here,
but I will always be your brother and
you will always be mine. That's what a
household is. That's what a family is.
So sometimes you have a weird cousin,
but it's okay. It's still a family,
right? Sometimes you have somebody that
you don't particularly care for. There
is a need. What I'm trying to tell you
is our society needs something. It
doesn't need you on the street
protesting. It doesn't need you making
political speeches. Let me tell you what
it does need. It needs you to be the
church God's called you to be. That's
what our community needs. That's what
our world needs. It needs us to be the
church. And what that means is it needs
us to first and foremost be a household
of God.
Family. Second truth,
the church is to be the assembly of the
living God. The assembly of the living
God. That's the word that's used here.
Said verse 15, that we may know how
ought to conduct yourselves in the house
of God, which is the church of the
living God. Church means assembly.
That's the word eklesia. It's an
assembly. It's it's a called out
gathering. We've been called out to be a
part of this assembly. That's right.
Now, it is literally a company of people
that have been invited.
It is not a company of people that have
been selected or picked. Now, you may
feel like that's what happened to you,
but here's the truth. You're called to
be here. You do not have to show up.
Some of you prove it pretty regularly.
You do not have to show up. Okay? You do
not have to be here. No one is going to
do something to you if you're not here
every Sunday. It's not going to happen.
It's not going to happen. It is a called
out group. But it does matter.
In Athens, eklesia will prove that same
thing. The eklesia in Athens was the
city council. That's right. Believe it
or not, their city council was their
entire population of Athens. Now,
imagine that. So, whenever they would
have a business meeting, they would
announce it that we're having a
discussion on such and such date.
Everyone's invited. And so, whoever
wanted to come came. And so they had a
meeting of everybody that wanted to
come. Here's the truth. Everybody never
came.
They were invited, but everybody never
came. But it still was the eklesia.
Here's my point. Even if you aren't back
next Sunday or the next, we still plan
to have an eklesia here.
Even if you don't want to be a part of
it, some of us do. Amen.
Some of us want to be a part of the
eklesy of God, the called out of the
living God. We just want to be a part of
that. That may sound silly to some, but
I just, the truth is, I just want to rub
skin. I don't want to be on the
internet. I don't want to watch it on
the internet. I want to be with you. It
is a called out assembly. It's not a
called out watch something on on your
phone. It is an assembly. That's the
meaning of the word. I'm sorry if you
think that I'm being sacriiggious to
your way of thinking, but Zoom is not
the church.
&gt;&gt; The church is an assembly.
I know that flies in the face of your
cell phone, but you need to get this
message. It is an assembly. That's what
it is. Because I don't know about you,
but I need to put my hand in your real
hand.
I need to hug a real person. Her little
girl got woken up by a storm one night,
you know, thundering boom and she's all
alone her bed and she woke up, scared
her, another flash, and she jumped out
of bed, ran to her mother's side, not to
her dad's side, of course. She ran to
her mother's side
and said, "Uh, mom, I'm scared." And the
mom said, "Don't be scared, sweetheart.
Jesus is always with you."
That sounds so comforting, doesn't it?
But the little girl was smarter than
that. She says, "Yeah, but mommy, mommy,
I need someone with skin on him."
Jesus ain't got no skin on him to come
and sit with me.
Sitting at home with Jesus. I ain't
touching anybody with skin on them.
I need the Jesus that's here that's got
skin on them. Jesus in you. Amen. the
hope of glory.
So there's a need for church to be the
assembly of the living God. The third
thing that's brought up in this text is
the church is to be the pillar of the
truth. Now this may mean something
different. I could be wrong about what
I'm fixing to bring out, but I'm going
to show you what I think maybe was
actually being talked about here that we
might have missed.
It says but if I delay I'm delayed I'll
write so that you may know how you
yourself or behave yourself in the house
of God which is the church of the living
God the pillar the ground of the truth.
The word pillar is stulos stools
and it appears to not be maybe what we
think.
It was a beautiful visible display that
you could see. You see in Ephesus which
is where he's writing to in Ephesus they
had the temple of Diana or Artemis.
You can read about that in Acts 19. A
big issue about that
one. It was one of the seven wonders of
the world at the time. The temple of
Artemis or Diana.
And what was interesting about that is
it had pillars in it.
127 to be exact.
And none of them hardly looked alike.
That's right. They were all different.
Why 127? They didn't need it to hold the
roof up. So if you're thinking that
we're the pillar of truth, we hold up
the roof. You don't need 127 pillars to
hold up a roof, folks. In fact, if you
got four pretty goodiz metal ones on a
corner of each of these, you'll probably
hold this roof up. You don't have to
have that many. Why 127? Well, they were
donated by kings and by very, very rich
people. And each one of them were
decorated in gold and marble and they
all looked different. They were all
significant and interesting. It was
absolutely fabulous to look at them. And
from a distance you could say, "Wow,
look at that. That's beautiful. What is
Let me look at that." And it was donated
by different ones. Now, I'm not trying
to call out that that was a good thing.
I'm trying to point to you what might
have been in the mind of the people that
heard that we're the pillar of truth.
What did they understand that meant that
it was essential to hold the roof up, to
hold the truth up? Or was it rather that
it did something else?
that it called to the beauty and the
fame of the ones who supported the thing
for Diana.
What does that mean? Well, the idea then
would be that the church's duty is to
hold up the truth. Yes. Where everybody
could see it, but that they could see it
in you.
You would be the pillar. And maybe
that's the reason Galatians 2 and verse
9 says uh James, Cphus, and John seem to
be pillars of the church.
Uh that Revelation 3 and verse 12 says,
"He who overcomes, I will make him a
pillar in the temple of heaven."
So maybe we're not talking about that we
need you as a structure in the sense of
literally holding up a roof or holding
up the truth and if you don't hold it
up, it won't be held up. But rather
maybe what it's trying to say is it will
call attention to the truth. Then it'll
call attention to the ideas about which
and what that means is your lifestyle,
how you're living, what kind of person
you are is calling attention to the
truth in which we stand. And if you're
not doing that, if you're drabbly taking
away from the beauty of the truth,
you're messing up and you're not being a
temp a temple pillar.
There's a thing called a happy thraw.
I know we don't use that word very
often. A happy thraw. A happy thraw.
What's a happy throw? You ever seen
Stonehenge? Stonehenge is believed to be
a happy thrral. Now, happy thr is
common. Actually, we we don't do it much
in our society, but hypothythrals were
very common in their day. And you'll see
them especially in places like Rome. If
you've been to Rome and you've been
walking around in Rome, you've seen
hypthros. Hypthrawls are when you make a
place outside and you put pillars up and
it has no purpose to hold a roof up. The
pillars are there for the beauty to call
attention to the area and the idea of
looking up. It wants you to look up. It
calls you to look up because it's a
happy thro and basically it just means
look.
And so they put pillars up and there's
no roof over it. Never was designed to
have a roof over it.
Look up.
We are the pillar and the ground of the
truth. Call him to look up. Call him to
look to the truth.
So there's a need I believe for the
church to be the pillars of truth and
call them to look up be the hypthr.
Number last the church is to be the
buttress of the truth. Now my version
says the ground of the truth but ground
or buttress
that's a hedra yoma hedra.
Basically, a buttress is you've probably
seen them. Uh sometimes buttresses are
square against a wall. You have a long
wall and you'll put a wall on the
outside of that wall that's
perpendicular to this wall and it helps
hold that wall up. It literally makes it
a stronger wall. A flying buttress
stands up like this and then extends
over the top and holds at the top of the
wall. Those are called flying
buttresses. So, you have buttresses and
flying buttresses. The idea is that when
you have a long wall, it's weaker
because the corners are so far away from
it. And so you support it along the
wall. And we're to be the ground of the
truth. We're to support the truth. We're
to make it stronger like a buttress.
We're to keep the building standing
strong. Miles Best, a journalist, said
it this way. The the content you see on
a given social media app isn't random.
It's curated content specifically made
for you and it's curated for by
recommendations of algorithms. These
algorithms are designed to keep you on
the social media app you're using for as
long as possible. And they do that by
learning what you like and showing you
more of that type of content. But is
this always a good thing? These
recommendations algorithms can help you
feel seen and build community while also
potentially trapping you in filtered
bubbles where you are only served
content that reinforces what you already
believe. No, no, no, no. That's not what
we're to be. We're not supposed to get
whatever it is we think off of an
internet, off of being told what we want
to believe, but rather we are to be the
buttress of the truth. That means that
you and I, our duty is to call people to
things they don't want to know. We are
the algorithm to bring them to truths
they don't want to hear. We we we
few must say no that's wrong. That's
right. We must do that. We cannot be oh
whatever you think whatever makes you
happy. We can't run that algorithm. We
can't live that way. We must be the
buttress of the truth. In 2 Timothy 4
and verse4, they will turn away their
ears from the truth. We must turn their
ears back to the truth. You say, "Well,
I don't like it when the church says
things that makes me uncomfortable."
Yeah, that's the problem with you, not
the problem with the church. You need to
change your attitude and stand for the
truth, not for your version of the
truth. Your version of the truth is
killing us. It is his truth that saves
us. You must be willing to abandon all
you thought and go with whatever this
says. Amen. Amen. Walls. Yes. The world
will try to eliminate all the unwelcome
truths, but the church must support it.
The world doesn't want to hear the truth
that it upho when we uphold it. They
don't want to hear it.
So there's a need for the church to be
the buttress of the truth. So that's the
lesson. Simple lesson, the church of
God, and it's needed. The world needs
it.
They need to hear from the household of
God that we are family. They need to
hear the assembly of the living God.
That means we have to be together. This
idea watching it on TV is not good
enough.
It's the pillar of truth. Yes, we each
one need to support in a hypthral the
truth so that they notice us and see us
living it and they're drawn to it. And
then we need to be the buttress of the
truth, standing firm against that which
would draw away from it. So the church
of God is needed and men can make it
look better or they can make it look
worse. And I'm talking to you now.
You can make make the truth in the
church look better or you can make it
look worse.
&gt;&gt; One man gave his argument against the
church. Can I give you the argument
against church? Can you hear that? Can
the church listen to the argument
against church?
Jesus is attractive, but I struggle with
the church. She said, "My grandmother
sometimes drags me to the church when I
was a kid. What I remember most are the
arguments I'd hear in the parking lot in
hallways.
One person didn't like the preacher.
Another defended, By the way, that is
possible. I know it's hard. One person
didn't like the preacher. Another
defended the preacher. Another piped up
with suspicion about the church
treasurer. Getting ready, Marvin?
It was the same argument over and over,
year after year. Even today, I drive
down the street near our house and come
to 10 different churches with 10
different names on their signs. And the
people in those churches barely talk to
each other. People all around them are
dying and going to hell. Or so they say
they believe, but they just spend all
their time arguing. Why should I believe
what y'all say when you can't agree on
what you tell me? What a great argument.
What a great argument. I'm on his side
with his argument. I just disagree with
his premise, but his argument holds
true, doesn't it? Oh, yes. That's a
sound argument. Frank Martin in his
book, The Book, War in the Pews: A
Foxhole Guide to Surviving Church
Conflict. He gives a few examples of how
we can argue and fight over anything and
everything in the church. Think about it
just a second.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; There was a church that split over a
dispute about a potluck supper. It seems
that the argument began when somebody
showed up to a fellowship meal with
congeal salad made with Cool Whip
instead of real whipping cream. That's
something to split a church over now,
ain't it?
How about this one? An argument that
nearly caused the church to split was
over a painting of Adam that somebody
put up. There was a big discussion as to
whether or not Adam should have been
betrayed with a belly button or without
a belly button.
And they almost split over.
A church that split
split over the Lord's supper.
How did it begin? whether you should
serve the Lord's supper from the rear, a
table at the back, or a table at the
front. There was the table where it sat
was the most sacred thing. We should
split over that. And the church did.
Two factions had believed that their
faction was right and their preacher was
the preacher. So, this faction had their
preacher and this faction had their
preacher. And it ended up where both of
them got up in front of the the
congregation, both of them standing in
the pullpit, both of them preaching two
different sermons.
It resulted in getting into a literal
fist fight and the police were called
and people went to jail.
A loving united church is desperately
needed in our world and they know they
need us.
They know it.
Let's determine to give the world what
it needs.
The church of God, a household,
an assembly,
a pillar of truth, and a buttress for
truth.
You can help us or you can work against
us. Guess what? You get to choose. And
right now, you get to choose. If you're
not right with God, you get to choose to
make the step forward or not. It's up to
you. While we stand. While we
