Now, Jock Da I think is the way you say
his name. He's a French guy, so I
probably got it wrong. He passed away in
2004.
uh he is a French philosopher and he
coined the phrase of uh deconstruction
to describe the scrutinizing of one's
core beliefs, one's core practices,
one's core values of a faith or or a
faith tradition by taking apart the
belief system to determine its validity.
So this can result in unbelief.
uh deconstructing your faith can lead to
unbelief or it can be a way to rebuild
your faith authentically.
Uh Pew Research Center in 2021
said 26% of American Jews uh say they do
not believe in God. Bara group studied
they found that 37% of Christians report
having deconstructed their faith
indicating uh their faith deconstruction
is apparently fairly common within
Christianity.
Bara went on to say that 42% of US
report having deconstructed their faith.
U in 2023 and 2024
the American religious landscape study
said that 29%
now identify themselves as either
atheists, agnostics or nothing in
particular. probably the line share is
nothing in particular rather than
atheists or agnostics. Now there are two
kinds of quote unquote Christians. Uh
one who absorbs the worldly mindset and
that's the way they deconstruct their
faith and the other disperses the mind
of Christ to the world around them. And
that's the predominant way of looking at
it. I don't know if that really defines
it. Let me give you a story that might
help you understand what I mean by that.
As two camels that were both loaded down
with a ton, one had a ton of cotton on
the camel's back and the other had a ton
of salt on their back. They came to the
river and the one with the ton of salt
on its back when it got into the water
actually the weight got lighter because
the water began to be absorbed uh absorb
it the salt and the salt dispersed some
and it ended up being lighter and so the
camel made it all the way across the
river. The other one had a ton of cotton
on its back, but when it got into the
water, the cotton absorbed all the water
around it and it drowned.
Same amount of weight, but because the
reaction of how you deal with it ended
up costing the life of the one. So, two
kinds of deconstruction can happen.
those who scrutinize their faith with an
unbiased view toward the truth and those
who scrutinize scrutinize their faith
with a biased desire to believe what
they already have decided they just want
to believe. And those deconstructing
today are really in many ways in our
culture at a disadvantage.
Uh because
uh there's so much in this world.
There's so much diversity, so much
accessibility to just about any culture.
And this mobile world, there's a lot of
biases out there. And they're biases
that are very strong and not very
flexible. And for most of history
though, people lived and died in a
system that they were born into. As you
recall, our grandparents or
great-grandparents lived in one location
for the most part, knew the people that
they grew up around, and they
experienced that. There was very little
deconstructing of your faith. You went
along with what you were taught, whether
good or bad, and that's just as bunch
often as bad as it was good. But it was
less of a problem of trying to negotiate
with what is correct, what isn't
correct. If you're struggling with that,
globalization, immigration, travel, the
printed page, the internet, social media
have opened the doors to a multitude of
voices that were not available to us a
generation or two ago. We didn't listen
to everybody because we didn't know they
even hardly existed. The perspectives
have changed. Experiences have changed.
A fellow named uh Gregory Boyd said this
uh in a book called The Benefit of the
Doubt. He said, "It's much easier to
remain certain of your beliefs when you
are not in personal contact with people
who believe differently. But when you
encounter people with different beliefs
and when those people sincerely and uh
and devotion possibly put yours to
shame, all their sincerity and devotion
put yours to shame, things become quite
a bit more difficult. So we attend
school and we come in contact with
people who diff differ in our thinking
and in our beliefs. We go to work, we
work alongside people who have different
beliefs. But the world is now much more
uh in contact with us in other ways. And
it's not a threat unless you want to
rebel. And if you want to rebel, it's
easy to do it. And to end up leaving the
faith that you were raised in, you can
believe something different real easy.
And by the way, young people, if that's
what you end up doing and you leave the
church and you leave the faith, let me
let me just tell you, it does not take a
genius to leave what you were taught.
And it isn't a sign of greater mind to
find fault with what it's not a sign of
of being really smart. You ask a
question that others can't answer.
It's really not. But a lot of people
think that's what that's a sign of. Uh I
want to look at four reasons people have
always been deconstructing their faith.
And I hope that you'll learn the
benefits of deconstructing and the
problems with it. That's that's why I
said this is a hard lesson because I'm
actually talking about both sides. I'm
talking out of both sides of my mouth.
Sorry about that. So here we go. Number
one, and we're not going to read the
whole thing again. That's participant
overwhelming. So, one of the reasons
that people end up deconstructing their
faith and even sometimes leaving the
faith is because they get overwhelmed.
They're a participant in what they
believe, but they are overwhelmed. And a
lot of times what causes that is what's
dealt with in verses 1 through 4. I'll
just pick up in verse three after he
talks about the scribes and the
Pharisees sit in Moses' seat. Verse
three says, "Therefore, whatever they
tell you to observe, that observe and
do, but do not do according to their
works, for they say and do not." And
verse four is really speaks to this. For
they bind heavy burdens hard to bear and
lay on men's shoulders, but they
themselves will not move them with one
of their fingers. Sometimes sometimes
leadership in the kingdom and in the
world and the religious world push
people. They push people. They push
people. Especially if you don't really
believe in grace, you can be pushed
really, really, really hard to do more,
to do more, to do more, to do more. High
performance people of faith are the ones
I'm talking about now. So you may be
thinking I'm thinking that these are
fringe people. One of the major people
who will deconstruct their faith are the
people who are high performance in their
faith. And the tendency in high
performance people is to burn out. Many
in ministry deconstruct their faith.
There are a lot of preachers who walked
away from their faith. And I'm talking
about of every genre out there. every
kind you can think of are leaving more
than you might imagine and you saw a lot
of that probably around CO but I'm
talking about in the general dayto-day
and it's not the why but the who that
scares us because it is these people who
are often very dedicated and the
spiritual apathetic destruction does
happen um but nobody pays attention to
them when somebody who's a fringe who
barely comes to church uh deconstru
constructs, hardly anybody notices,
especially if they don't have hardly any
friends in the church. But when somebody
is in some kind of a leadership position
or is up front a good bit and they could
deconstruct, that's that can be very de
devastating to people around it. Josh
Packard and Ashley Hope, sociologists in
2015 noticed a startling pattern. It
said that many of the people who had
left the church were once considered
some of the strongest and most active
members in the church. 38% church le of
church leaders considered leaving
ministry in the past year. So and it's
happening in Galatians 6 and verse9 and
King James. I like King James on this
verse because of the way it words it and
let us not be weary in welloing for in
due season we shall reap if we faint
not. Most the new versions say and let's
not be weary in doing well. But welloing
is actually better because the
expression is is that things you may not
be very successful in your faith. You
don't have to be successful in your
faith. Winning souls and uh teaching all
the Bible classes to have faith. You can
be very faithful. There are a lot of
preachers who are very faithful in
places that are dying. This idea that
every church should be growing is not
rational because you don't know the
circumstances. There are many
circumstances out there. The community
is not growing. It's dying. and fewer
people are living there than lived there
last year. If you live in a town and
every year it gets smaller, you just
recognize that happens to preachers all
the time. And so sometimes you think,
well, he's the successful one. And a lot
of times, you know, they just moved to a
place that was booming. Everybody was
moving in there and you thought they did
an outstanding job and all they did is
do what every other preacher does and
people came in because people were
moving in the area. And most people
don't like Rick Warren. Y'all think uh
he's so powerful because his church grew
so big. You've all read about him. But
before he left the seminary, he looked
up the fastest growing community in the
nation and that's where he went.
Okay. Just just thought I'd throw that
in something to pay attention to. So
doing welldoing.
You can be engaged in welloing and get
faint and want to quit.
because it's not working and people
aren't being helped as much as you'd
like to see. So, uh, many in ministry
have to deal with this. But I'm just
trying to suggest to you, some of you
who teach Bible classes, some of you who
have spoken, some of you are engaged
elders,
you think you're invulnerable
deacons, Bible class teachers, I'm
talking to you. Christians can have a
deconstructing faith, but they are the
participants when they get overwhelmed.
And it's not always the church that
overwhelms them, but sometimes it is,
especially if you're struggling with
grace.
Second lesson,
prideful orthodoxy is a real problem.
Jesus is dealing with it in this text.
And it's part of the reason people in
Judaism weren't more dedicated than they
were because they saw the hypocrisy that
were deal he was dealing with. I'll just
pick up in verses 5, 6, and seven. I
won't read that whole text. It says,
"But all their works they do to be seen
by men. They make their flactories broad
and enlarge the borders of their
garments." Flactories is the thing they
wore here and here. and the borders of
the four places with the knots uh with
these things that look like feathers. Um
that's the reason it talks about God
covering you with his feathers. Verse
six, the love uh the they love the best
places at feasts, the best seats in the
synagogue. Verse seven, greetings in the
marketplace. So it's not talking about
they just love the fellowship, they love
the greeting, which is a different thing
entirely. And to be called by a man
rabbi, rabbi or great man. Uh so the
prideful prioritization
of conformity to leaders
over unity
can drive people away. I don't know if
you heard that. That's difficult to hear
all of that. For many young people, and
so I'm talking to younger people now,
20s down. Many young people, ambiguity,
curiosity,
mystery are essential to their faith
journeys. I know that sounds strange to
you, maybe if you're a little older, but
many faith communities pride forces
conformity.
So, we thought that that was keeping
them safe, but sometimes we're driving
them out the door.
Um Bonnie Christian uh in a book called
A Flexible Faith wrote this. We we can
get so stuck and our own little pool
that we never notice the stream of
orthodoxy is wide and deep and beautiful
without even realizing it. We can become
convinced our own tradition of
Christianity is the one Christian
Christian alternative to nonbelief.
And when it comes to spiritual matters,
questions and doubts are inevitable.
Now, you may not want to admit it
because I heard Billy Graham one time.
I've never had any doubts. Well, I
didn't believe Billy Graham about a lot
of stuff, so I might as well not believe
him about that. So, I I don't believe
that's true. Uh if it is, I think he was
close-minded. Um I think it's actually
essential that you have some doubts from
time to time. question, why is this
happening to me? What is this about? I
think that's actually a growth period in
your life. And I let me be a little open
here, maybe more open than you're going
to be comfortable with. I began dis
deconstructing my faith between 1978 and
1979, 45 years ago. I'm still engaged in
it.
That's right. I'm still engaged in it.
It started, let me give you an
understanding of what I'm really talking
about. It this started in about the
1970s on MDR, marriage, divorce, and
remarage. Big issue in the church back
then. Huge issue. There were debates
everywhere. Maybe you don't remember it,
but it was a big issue. And then that
didn't that wasn't the big issue. Then
there was the big F, little F over
fellowship. Okay? And each of these I
dug into. I mean, I dug into it. I
thought, well, if there's something
wrong, I'm going to try to find out what
it is. And so I dug into the big elf,
little elf in fellowship. I'm look
seeing you look at me like what is that
about? I can't explain all of these, but
basically it's about uh big elf means
you and I have fellowship because we're
in the church. Little elf, we have
fellowship with people who aren't in the
church of Christ. That's a big
discussion that was up. It doesn't
matter what the truth is on that right
now for the sake of the discussion. Then
it was the debate over women used in
worship. And by the way, that comes up
about every 10 years. I've noticed about
every 10 years somebody comes to me and
says, "I've been studying."
And uh here's something you need to
learn. And I'm like, "Well, thank you."
Okay. Um and this led me to begin
deconstructing everything. And I've
pretty much deconstructed everything
that you think you believe and that I
believe. I don't if I find something
new, I deconstruct that, too. And by
that, what I mean is,
well, let's just show you how deep
baptism is. Is it essential? I dug in.
Just dug in. And all I was taught and I
knew what the Bible said, but had I
missed something, right? Have you ever
done that? Did I miss something? What do
I need to see? The indwelling of the
Holy Spirit. Yep. Deep years into that.
The spirit. Uh, do we have it? What can
he do? Grace, that was a big one. spent
a lot of time in that. What is the real
truth about grace? What does it mean?
What are we supposed to do? Works. How
does works fit into salvation? And no, I
wasn't teaching any of this. This is
just stuff on my own that I've done. I
mean, stacks and stacks and stacks of
books and and looking into it. The
cannon itself, this cannon here,
is that right? And you wouldn't need to
do that, but I needed to do that. I need
to make sure those books were the books
we are supposed to have. Creation
itself, the study of creation, the
flood, did it really happen? What's the
evidence of that? The Tower of Babel,
did it really exist? What was it about?
What did Garden of Eden, did that really
happen? Where was it? How did that
happen? Nephilim, is that real? Did they
really exist? Uh, giants, which is
similar to that statement. Demons, what
are demons? I'm not talking about
devils. I'm not talking about the angels
that fell with Satan. That's a different
discussion. demons which I don't believe
were angels by the way but anyway then
angels uh and then the falling angels
the good angels u even taught some on
that job what is the real message of job
is it true what I'm being told I mean
I've been in all the Bible classes y'all
been in the Bible classes you go through
and I'm not talking about the books I
mean well obviously I did that you know
Matthew Mark Luke John Acts Romans 1
second Corinthians Ephesians Philippians
yeah every one of them tearing them
apart trying to figure out did did Paul
really write that is that really the the
way it ought to be. And why do I do
that? Why would I do that? Because I if
it's not true, I'd get up and tell you.
That's I think that's my responsibility.
I really would. Ecclesiastes, what did
it mean? Uh instrumental music, been
into that deep many, many times.
Deep many, many times. The purpose of
the virgin birth, why
the purpose of tongues, the three
reasons, and I don't have time to deal
with it. There are three reasons that
tongues existed and and they went away.
Miracles. What are we taught about that?
What is really true about that? I don't
agree with everything. And that's the
other thing that happens in this. You
learn some things that you don't fully
agree with what I've heard. Right?
You've done that, haven't you? I bet
you've done that. So, I've done that on
a lot of things. And so, it didn't quite
line up. And then I could go into uh
hell, Exodus, Revelation, which by the
way I don't agree with almost anybody
about uh predestination, Calvinism,
don't agree with a lot of people on
that. Uh the kneeling oath, we'll talk
about that another day. Romans 8, Romans
9, Romans 11, the essentiality of the
failure of Christ and why that was
critical, the infinite number of sins,
the cross itself, and h how and why the
cross saves. Why did that need to
happen? the son of predition who that is
what that's about and the final prophets
and the reason I'm saying all that is
acts 17:11 says these were more faithful
than those in Thessalonica in that they
received the word with all readiness and
search the scriptures daily to find out
whether these things were so
that's deconstructing your faith so many
church leaders claim to only want to
know the truth and what I found is I've
heard people many many times tell me I
you would be my best friend if you'd
point out what We I'm telling you
something. Most preachers don't really
mean that. They just say that.
They just say it. They think they mean
that until you bring something up that
obviously kind of disagrees with
something they believe and then it's
all, "Oh, you're not being faithful."
That's where that's at. So, Christians
can have deconstructing faith from
prideful orthodoxy. And what I mean by
that is you can be so proud of your
orthodoxy, you can't even consider that
you might be wrong on anything.
And you have to be willing to consider
you're wrong on everything.
That's real deconstruction. But you got
to look at it. Well, I'll show you in a
minute. All right. So, the next point.
Okay. This is a perverse obstinency.
Now, I'm not going to read this because
that's a long 13-33. That's a lot. But
let me just point out in that little
section 1333, the word hypocrites used
eight times. The word blinds used four
times. Fools is used twice and serpents
one unless you count brood of vipers the
second one. There's some serious
perversity
that drives people to leave. What I'm
trying to say is young people watch all
us old folks. And when they see that
there's something not being straight
with them. They perceive that we're not
being totally open about what we
believe. You want to see a flood go out
the door. If they just perceive it, it
doesn't have to be true. If they
perceive that we're hiding something,
that we won't consider something, that
we won't look at something,
people will walk away from the church
over that. Seen it happen. So trust in
the morality or f of our foundational
institutions is declining, folks. What
are financial I mean foundational
institutions? Their government. Do let
me ask you, do you think people are
having trouble trusting the government?
Amen, Walls. Okay. How about business?
We've heard of Enron. Do you think that
people are having trouble trusting their
businesses and their companies that they
work for? Do they really feel loyal to
their businesses like they once did? I
don't think so. How about the media? Do
you really trust the media or you always
secondguessing the media? I don't think
we trust it. And then you say, "Well,
but we're the church." Listen, the
church is under the same scrutiny, if
not more so. Why? Because it's been
churches that have molested little boys
and little girls, okay? And having
affairs in the church, and the world has
seen it. It's been on TV. They've seen
it everywhere. Let me tell you
something. People look at us not the way
they once did. Once upon a time,
everybody thought everybody went to
church. Well, churches were just
trustworthy. Not so much anymore. So
sexual misconduct and accusations have
seriously hurt the reputation. Gallup
poll says this that the trust in
pastors, which they would call me that,
the trust in pastors and clergy is at an
all-time low. 51%
of 55 years old or older have favorable
views of church leaders. So all you old
toppies, you think church people are
great and the leaders are great and you
trust them and you know, but everybody
below your age, this is what it says.
24% of 18 to 34 say pastors and clergy
have a high honesty. But that means
nearly 75% aren't quite so sure.
Okay, that leads to people
deconstructing their faith in a negative
way. Not considering all sides, not
looking at it carefully. They just
decide it's not real. You'll uh Lynn in
New York Times wrote this. How did
Americans lose faith in everything? We
lose faith in an institution when we no
longer believe it plays this ethical
role of teaching people to be
trustworthy.
That's where people are lie about
religion right now. Matthew 26:59 says,
"The chief priests, the elders, and all
the councils sought false testimony."
You listen to this. This is the
leadership of the Jews that he's talking
about. He calls them hypocrites. He
calls them blind. He calls them fools.
He calls them serpents. This is his
leadership in his day. Nothing's
changed.
the world's the same as it was. And he
does that. Why? Because Matthew 26:59
says, "The chief priests, the elders,
and all the council," that's everybody
in the Jewish leadership that meant
anything sought false testimony.
It didn't say they sought testimony
against Jesus. They It says they sought
false testimony against Jesus. seeking
the faults. If you seek it hard enough
in deconstructing your faith, and so you
think you're just an honest person, but
you only look at one side, okay? So, you
look at everything that says the church
is not what it should be, you will find
it.
You will end up not believing in the
church or anything about Christianity.
If you want to find a rotten egg, you'll
find it. I promise you, it's there for
you to find. perverse leaders or someone
seeking to perverse uh something, you
will find it. So, Christians can have
deconstructing faith from perverse
obstinency, unwilling to listen or
change or do anything. We got to guard
against that. The last point I want you
to see, hopefully this will all come
together at the end. Maybe you're a
little confused right now and I'm sorry.
Political obesence.
Now, I don't want to reread all of 34
through38, but I want you to understand
that the leadership of the Jews were
entirely too political. You may not know
this, but the high priest was not chosen
the way it was supposed to be in Jesus'
day. The Romans chose who the high
priest was. They chose Caiaphas, and
they chose Annis, and they told them
when one needed to retire. And that was
the way it went on until the destruction
of Jerusalem. I'm just telling you that
they were very politically savvy. But
another thing that they were is they
were becoming more and more violent to
accomplish their end. That's right. It
says uh in verse 34, kill, crucify,
scourge, persecute. Look at all those
violent words. Uh verse 35 it says
bloodshed, blood of the righteous, blood
of Zachcharias, murdered between. Verse
37. Oh Jerusalem, Jerusalem one who
kills the prophets and stones they
became. So the more politically engaged,
you might should pay attention to what's
going on in the world. The more
politically engaged people become, uh,
the more willing to use
crazy tactics.
Might want to keep you out of politics.
John 16:2 says, "Whoever kills you will
think he offers God service."
How could that ever be? His name was
Saul. He changed it to Paul.
Yeah, it can happen.
So, so too people watching that, you're
looking at younger people, not you older
with this stuff on your head so much,
but the younger ones looking at what we
do and they may see
what good is religion
is it accomplishing things. So, the
acceptance of political part party
idolatry and that's what I will call it.
If you're very political, I would
suggest that you need to back off from
it because you're probably idolatry
targeted.
The acceptance of political part party
idolatry and adopting nationalistic
faith will draw us into this and run
people off. Well, I just we should put a
American flag up there on the stand.
Yeah, you're going to run folks off,
especially the young people. You know
that, right? So you you want to talk
about your political persuasion, you
ought to hush. You're going to run folks
off. If you think you're doing the world
a favor, doing the church a favor, you
can talk to anybody privately you want
to about whatever you think you need to
talk to about. I'm not telling you you
can't do it. I'm just telling you, you
may not be accomplishing what you think.
We're not about trying to win people to
become Americans. We're about winning
somebody to follow Christ Jesus.
America will not exist one day.
Okay. I don't think there will be an
American heaven
just be heaven, right?
The Jews were totally political. Even
amongst the apostles, there was signs of
political that uh there's some serious
signs of being political in the
apostles, but that went away. John
11:48,
if we let him alone, the Romans will
come and take away both our place and
nation. They'd gotten so enrolled in
politics that they were more scared of
losing their position than they were of
doing what was right. In Matthew 20 21,
grant that these two sons of mine sit
one on your right hand and the other on
the left in your kingdom. They're not
talking about heaven. They're talking
about a political situation. They
thought that Jesus going to establish a
kingdom on earth. And that's all their
thinking was about. Acts 1 and verse 6
says, "Will you at this time restore the
kingdom to Israel?" Not the kingdom to
the world or God's kingdom here. They
wanted a kingdom on the planet that
would just rule and have power. Jesus
said over and over again, "What you want
is not the kingdom of heaven. You want a
different kingdom."
Matthew 24:es 1 and 2 is not one stone
will be left upon another. That's the
temple. Go look. It's gone.
That's a message from God, my brothers
and sisters.
You do know that, right?
That was a message from God. I'm done
with that. You got it. I'm done with
playing games like that. That was not
getting us where we needed to go. In
Luke 21:es 20- 24 it says just verse 20.
But when you see Jerusalem surrounded by
armies then know that it's desolation is
near. Who's responsible for that? Oh
it's just Rome. No my brothers and
sisters that was God.
And they were very they thought very
dedicated but they were just wonky as
they could be politically. In Luke 23
28-30 daughters of Jerusalem do not weep
for me but weep for yourselves. days are
coming in which they will say blessed
are the barren because we don't want to
be pregnant when the Jerusalem is being
destroyed. Verse 30, they will begin to
say to the mountains fall on us and the
hills cover us. I don't want to see this
happening. That's where that goes. Be
careful what you wish for. In Matthew 7
13 and 14, this mainly is in
anticipation of what was coming. We
always want to make it about the end of
the world. But in the context, if you
stay in the context and you read it in
Young's literal translation, listen to
what it's really saying here because it
may not be saying what you think it
says. It says, "Go ye in through the
straight gate because wide is the gate
and broad is the way that is leading to
the destruction. Not to destruction, but
to the destruction, and many are those
going in through it right now." He's
telling them what was happening to them
right now. They were about to be
destroyed. Verse 14, how straight is the
gate and compress the way that is
leading to life. You got to be careful.
You want to live through this. And few
are those finding it. Go back and study
that. See if you come away with a
different perspective. Israel was bound
to be destroyed. The Jews were
hyperpolitical partisans and it is
creeping into the church.
Amy Peterson, former missionary, writes
this. It was on a book called Where
Goodness Still Grows. People of my
generation aren't leaving the church
because their devious atheistic
professors got to them, but because they
saw a church more interested in
defending political power than in loving
their neighbors.
Timothy Keller. The New York Times said
this and Timothy Keller, smart man,
folks. While believers can register
under a party affiliation and be active
in politics, they should not identify
the church or faith with a political
party as the only Christian one.
I know if you're that way, you don't
like what I just said.
They discou It's discouraging to watch
people who taught you discernment
fall into political conspiratorial
rabbit holes or inflaming politics.
1st Samuel 15 23 stubbornness is
idolatry. Don't forget
don't worship America.
Ezekiel 14:4 everyone who sets up his
idol in his heart. Oh, I don't have an
idol. If you value something above this
and what we're about, you do. You have
an idol. You can call it whatever you
want. Red, white, and blue is not what
I'm following. It's about the red
mainly.
Colossians 3:5, covetousness is
idolatry. Beware, you do not preach
America or party over Jesus. Jesus
saves. That's it. Jesus saves.
Christians can have. And what am I
saying? And I'm saying you you
deconstructing faith.
You can destroy somebody's faith by
being too political. Some of you need to
get off Facebook, internet. You should
never post again because you don't know
how to measure your words.
Deconstructing faith Christians can
have. And here's that's the whole lesson
there. These are just four. These just
four. This is not the whole subject.
Okay. participant overwhelming. You can
be one of the leading members of the
church and end up quitting because you
get burned out and it happens and they
dig into what they believe and they say,
"Oh, well maybe." And then they end up
looking into it. What they're really
doing is looking for what's wrong with
the church and they end up believing.
Prideful orthodoxy. That's when we're so
proud of what we believe that we can
drive everybody away because we don't
let people even think for themselves.
And you got to let people think for
themselves and even disagree with you. I
want to have a series Sunday nights of
just question and answer. And you know
what I want? I want you to disagree
because if you cannot feel like you can
disagree with the preacher or with the
elders, by the way, who are wrong from
time to time, believe it or not, you
elders, believe me, I've seen it. So I
if you can't accept that, you're not
really in a good headsp space because
these people need to see that you're
just human, too. And you might you're
willing to consider you might be wrong.
You might be wrong. Just that. That's
all it's got to be. It doesn't have to
be I'm definitely wrong. It's just I
could be wrong on something. Perverse
obstinency. When we are perverted and we
won't deal with the perversions and
we're obstinent about it or political
obsessence where we just we're church.
I've seen churches and y'all seen it on
TV and they just like pledge allegiance.
God forbid. And I'm not against the
pledge of allegiance, but folk, not in
church, not when we're worshiping God.
We come here worship God.
So this does not have to be a completely
divided path being on one side only. But
here are my words of caution that you
might have thought I was on that
already, but here we go. So a word of
warning to those taking pride in their
deconstruction. So if you're proud that
you've destroyed, taken apart all that
you believe and you've decided you're
sitting there and saying, "Yeah, but I
know what's wrong with you about the
instrument or I know what's wrong with
you about baptism. I know what's wrong
with the church about this." And we have
that not so much Sunday nights, but we
do have that sitting on Sunday morning
especially. We have people sitting there
doing that. Deconstruction without
reconstruction is a tragedy, folks. It's
not smart. There's no limit to
deconstruction. And you can come out the
other side lonely, bitter, and hopeless
if you go down that rabbit hole too
deep. If your deconstruction does not
make you more generous, compassionate,
compassionate, hopeful, and merciful to
more people like Jesus was, your
deconstruction is worthless, and you
need to stop it.
There are things that need to be
re-evaluated. Amen. But a
Christthonoring deconstruction reveals
the truth and the beauty, not cynicism
and arrogance.
It's good to look at what you believe.
But if you only examine one side of any
topic and you claim you're digging in,
you're dishonest
and you're not going to end up where you
should be.
The other word, a word of warning is to
those taking offense with those in
deconstruction. And now I'm talking to
the you who are more mature. You're in
my zone.
History has shown re-evaluation and
restoration can be a good thing.
Uh basically that's what Jesus was
doing.
Beware of outright dismissal of
grievances of deconstructing Christians.
Ah, he's just wanting to leave the
faith. Maybe not. Maybe not
leaving the church as if it he's got a
good reason for it. Well, he might.
Maybe you just need to talk to him.
You know, maybe maybe they just need to
know that somebody actually cares.
Deconstruction can end in reconstruction
and restoration movements. We had one,
didn't we? I think there was this thing
called the Reformation movement. It was
actually a good thing. And then there
was a restoration movement. It was
actually a good thing. But that was
taking apart. That was deconstructing
things to try to get down to what was
really important. That's a good thing.
Could it happen today? Yes, of course it
could happen today. People need a safe
place to ask questions and raise
concerns. I don't like what we're doing.
Okay. What do you think we should be
doing? And why do you think it's wrong?
That's good. It's not wrong. And if it's
not at church, if you can't do that at
church, where else on the planet can you
do it? You've got to be able to ask
questions here. I want the young people
to come up to me and say, "I don't agree
with anything you just said." Not
because I want them to disagree, but but
because I think they need to do that
from time to time. I didn't like it. I
didn't like it. It's okay. We can exile
those to that we think have legitimate
grievances, but what good will that do?
So restoration requires a little vision
because otherwise we do the other to our
own peril.
Jesus was crucified because they could
not deconstruct their faith. The Jews
could not see that they were going down
the wrong path. They just couldn't see
it. So, kill the man who says we should.
Daughter came home from school. This my
last I'm about to end. Uh daughter came
home from school and um see said, "Mom,
you're not going to believe what
happened in history class today." Said
the teacher, the professor told the
class that they were going to play a
game.
He walked around the room and he
whispered in the ear to each kid
whether or not they were a witch or a
regular person. Said, "This is a game."
So he went around, whispered into each
kid's ear.
Uh then he gave the instruction,
form the biggest group or the largest
group you possibly can without a witch
in your group. If your group has even
one witch, you fail this game.
And he let him go. So the whole room
instantly lit up with suspicion.
Everyone started interrogating the
other.
Are you a witch? And how do you know?
Maybe you're lying to me because now
you're a witch and you're covering it
up. Some kids clung to one big group
because they wanted to win with the big
group. But most broke off into smaller
groups and exclusive clicks that they
were kind of buds with. And they'd all
talk to each other. Are you a witch? No,
I'm not a witch. Are you a witch? And it
seemed uncertain. They were nervous
about the whole game. And they anybody
that gave off the slightest hint that
they were not being 100% uh honest or
they were slightly guilty, they were
excluded. The energy shifted really fast
in the room and everyone was suspicious
of everyone in the class whispering.
They began to whisper. people were
talking to. What's that? What did they
do? What? They were whispering about
each other and fingerpointing side eyes
looking at each other from the side to
see what they were doing. Trust in the
class dissolved in minutes. And finally,
when all the groups were finally formed
and the teacher said, "Okay, have you
done it? All right, time to find out who
fails, which is raise your hands."
And no hand went up.
the whole class. What?
Wait, you messed up the game.
Then the teacher dropped the bomb. Did
I? Were there any actual witches in
Salem or did everyone just believe what
they were told?
My daughter went on to say, the lady
said that the room went dead silent at
that and then it hit them. No witch was
ever needed for the damage to happen.
Fear had already done its work.
Suspicion
alone had divided the entire class,
turning the community into chaos.
And isn't that kind of what we see
today?
Different words maybe, same playbook.
Get people scared, get them suspicious,
get them divided. The danger was never
the witch.
The danger is the rumor.
The danger is the suspicion of your
brother. The danger is the fear of what
somebody asking questions might be up
to.
Beware of the danger.
Let's learn to be patient with each
other. Amen.
And let people do some thinking. We
should not be afraid of any question.
Amen. We should be open to any honest
discussion always. Any question any time
and to say, "Well, I I don't know if I
agree with that, brother Dutton." Well,
let's talk. Maybe you're right, and
maybe we're wrong.
You got to be willing. If you're here
tonight
and you've never obeyed the gospel, it
may just be that you've never been
willing to consider
maybe I'm not right.
You can't obey the gospel if you think
you're always right, can you? So, even
to obey the gospel, you have to say, you
know, I think I'm wrong. I need to get
right.
That can go on every day and you can
continually come back to the Lord. You
know, I think I'm not right about
everything. Wouldn't that be a shocker
to your kids for them to hear that I'm
not right about everything?
Yeah. Maybe just be honest. If you're
here tonight and you've not given your
life to the Lord, we want to help you
every way we can. You just come forward
while we stand and while we sing.
