I think uh we all to some degree
struggle. Uh but I think um men struggle
to be good husbands and good fathers and
family men. Uh and as a a husband, I
mean, we really hate it when our wives
say that we're lazy. I mean, it's not
like we've done anything, but um
y'all get that tomorrow.
An elder's children must bring him
honor. And that's the central message of
this text. Uh suggest
by the children's behavior
that he knows how to lead men and women
to justification,
sanctification, and service in Christ.
And if a man can't lead his children to
some degree to that direction, it's
difficult for you to imagine that he'd
be able to lead any of the rest of us.
So, uh, the young man was to be
sentenced to go to the penitentiary.
And the judge had known the young man
from his childhood.
And he was well acquainted with his
father. His father was a famous legal
scholar, author of one of the exhaustive
studies entitled The Law of Trusts.
And so when he has this young man before
him, before he sentences him, he says to
the young man, "Do you remember your
father?"
And the young man answered, "I remember
him well, sir.
Well, then trying to probe a little
deeper, he says, "As you're about to be
sentenced
and as you think of your wonderful dad,
what do you remember most and most
clearly about him?"
The young man paused a moment
and then the judge got an answer he
wasn't expecting.
He said, "Your honor, I remember when I
went to him for advice. He looked at me,
looked up at me from the book he was
writing and said, "Run along, boy. I'm
busy."
When I went to him for companionship, he
turned me away, saying, "Run along, son.
This book must be finished."
Your honor, you remember him as a great
lawyer. I remember him as a lost friend.
And the magistrate muttered under his
breath, "Alas, he finished the book but
lost the boy."
I think the ba behavior of a child
may define who a father and who a mother
is maybe better than we like to think.
Proverbs 17:25, "A foolish son is a
grief to his father.
Proverbs 19:13,
"A foolish son is destruction to his
father." Proverbs 28:7,
"Companion of glutton shames his
father." Proverbs 15:20, "A wise son
makes a father glad." Proverbs 23:24,
"The father of the righteous will
greatly rejoice."
Yeah. So, I want to look at this
subject.
I will say this. I mean, you know, I've
talked a lot, well, not a lot. I talked
a little bit about my father and how he
lived the wrong way for many years, but
my father did change. And so, I actually
had great respect for my father by the
time he passed away. Um, so he's missed
now. Well, I don't talk about that much,
but he's pretty well missed.
uh because he changed and I saw him
become a Christian.
Three things that elders as father,
fathers of children must contribute to
the child to being under control. And
that's what we want to look at. Number
one, an elers's children must be under
control
as the result of his role.
He is a father. He is the head of the
house. I want to read uh 1 Timothy 3:4
from a few different versions. Maybe
you'll pick up something here that you
might have missed. Uh 1 Timothy 3:4 from
the New King James says, "One who rules
his own house well having his children
in submission with all reverence." So
he's had to learn to be a father. Uh 1
Timothy 3:4 New American Standard says
he manages his own house well. So he has
to be a manager. That's his role in a
large degree. And then the Young's
literal translation says his own house
he's leading well. So he has to learn
the role of a father is to be a manager
and a leader in the home. And I think
the goal seems to be that the tenor of
scripture seems to be he tries to make
that place and obedience to him as
delightful as possible.
um to have a relationship
with his children
and to help them to find their place
without them being hindered by his own
failings because every father has
failings.
But how does an elers's role in the
household affect his children? That
seems to be the point of a lot of this.
I'm going to read 1 Timothy 3:5
two or three more times. It says, "For
if a man does not know how to rule his
own house, how will he take care of the
church of God?" Now, that's an
interesting idea that he had to know
how. So, that suggests not every man
knows how.
So, that suggests he learned it
somewhere. Obviously, one place is the
scriptures. Another place would be from
his own family,
either his father or maybe his
grandfather or someone else in his
family
and goes back to uh band of brothers. We
learn much from our fathers that we pass
on. Ephesians 6 and verse4 says, "And
you fathers, do not provoke your
children to wrath, but bring them up in
the training and admonition of the
Lord." So that suggests that a father's
place is pretty twofold in that text. He
is to bring them up. He is to train his
children. And I suppose that applies to
every aspect of his life or her life.
bet train his children and to admonish
them in the Lord. So that's to give
warning. Uh so an elers's children must
be under control and for them to be
under control they need to recognize
their father's role as their trainer and
as their admonisher
which means has to hold the children to
some degree accountable. Which brings us
to the second message here and that is
an elers's children must be under
control as a result of his rule.
Now that doesn't go over well in our
society the word rule but it's certainly
in your scriptures.
Again the New King James says this one
who rules
his own house. Well that words there
having his children in submission
with all reverence. Again, the New
American Standard keeping his children
under control. That means it's a force
down, if you will. There is power
exhibited from above to keep them under
control. The Young's literal translation
having children in subjection. So, his
children are in subjection. This all
suggests children that are at home. It
wouldn't really suggest children who
live away from home. But the word uh the
Greek word hupatage uh under control is
really a military term. It refers to the
idea of lining up in rank under
authority. So you kind of see the rank
and so a father's authority therefore
has to be almost like a militaristic
term but it means to be reasonable and
understood and not just arbitrary.
Um that didn't always fit the military
but it should. So how does an elers's
rule
in the household affect his children? So
if you if you rule, that means you make
rules, right?
If you if you rule, you have to make
rules. You can do this, you can't do
that, you can do this when you're this
age, you can't do it when you're this
age. Those are rules. You have to make
them. They always want to push beyond
that. If the rule is you can't do
anything, do this thing until you're 12,
they're going to want to do it at 11.
just or 10, you know, especially if they
have an older brother or older sister
that's passed through that. That's it.
But you have to have rules and you have
to stick with your rules if you're going
to have rules at all. Uh 1 Timothy 3:5
again, if a man does not know how to
rule his own house. So, you have to
learn how to rule. You can't take care
of the church. By the way, and I need to
say this. You're going to take care of
the church of God as an elder. You have
to make rules. Now, some of you are not
going to understand that. You're going
to think, "Well, only God can make
rules." But that's not really true. God
does make rules, but you make rules in
your home. And we make rules in our
homes. We all do it. And every
institution in the world can make rules.
And here's the truth, too. And that is
that elders have to make rules at
church. Like, when does church start?
When does it end? So say, "Well, when is
church over that we can do this other
thing?" Well, it's when we say it ends.
That's that's the way it is. How how
many services we going to have this
week? We don't all meet and discuss
that, right? Somebody has to make that
rule, though. So, yeah, they're not
rules like the law of God, but they are
rules. So, fathers make rules. In
Matthew 24:45 it says, "Who then is a
faithful and wise servant whom his
master made ruler over his household to
give them food in due season." So one of
the things that a ruler of a household
is responsible for is to be a feeder of
the family. Not just a teacher, but that
would be part of it obviously feeding
them what they need, but also literally
feeding them what they need when they
need it. So by controlling his children,
he can manage the house, feed them when
they need to be fed, leave them where
they need to go. So an elers's children
must be under control. And the way you
get them under control is not just you
remember what your role is. This is not
on mothers. It is on mothers, but it is
on mothers like it is on fathers. The
role of a father is especially
especially with boys. You have to
control boys. Okay, just maybe you moms
don't know that, but boys have to be
controlled and to a degree. And moms
have a harder time probably controlling
them than boys men do. But so there has
to be some rules. So you have to have a
role that they understand and then there
have to be some rules and they must
understand what the rules are. That's
how you get them under control. And
there has to be a a potential fear
punishment attached to it. And if
there's not a potential punishment or
fear attached to it, it's not much role
and not much of a rule. Number three,
so an elers's children must be under
control as a result of his reverence.
It says in this text, listen to this. It
says 1 Timothy 3:4 and New King James
says, "One who rules his own house well,
having his children in submission with
all reverence." Have you noticed that?
With all reverence. Now, that's not the
only way that that's stated. In the New
American Standard, it's stated like
this, with all dignity.
And then in the Young's literal
translation, it's translated with all
gravity.
There has to be some reverence that the
father brings to the table. So an
elers's children are to be reverent,
respectful,
well disciplined believers, faithful.
We'll get to that in a week or so. So a
father must exercise authority with
consequences. But to make it advisable
that you do what he says, but it's more
than that. It isn't just that. But how
do you create a sense of reverent
respect? How do you do that?
You ever thought about it? How does that
happen to anybody?
How do we respect what we respect? What
is it that makes us respect God?
Think about it just a second and we'll
get on to this. Proverbs
13:4, "He who spares his rod hates his
son." Maybe we're beginning to find out.
Proverbs 23:13, do not withhold
correction from a child.
And Proverbs 29:15, the rod and rebuke
give wisdom. Not just the rod, but the
rod and rebuke. Here's what I remember
when I was a kid. I didn't mind a
spanking. Spank me. Let me go. Get it
over with. Hit me. Whatever you got to
do, and let me go. Please don't preach
at me for a half hour waiting on the
spanking.
Right?
But listen to me. It was the preaching
that I feared more than the whipping
and that I hated more. But it was the
preaching that did me more good than the
whipping. It made me dread the whipping
and dread it and dread it and dread it,
which made the words more powerful.
I think what I'm trying to get at right
here is how do you create respect and
reverence? How does a father do that?
Well, obviously he does it by showing
it.
Sure. Example, but there's more. How
does a an elder reverence
in his household? And how does that
reverence affect his children? Remember
what it says again. For if a man does
not know how to rule his own house, how
will he take care of the church of God?
So if he doesn't have respect for
everything, every rule.
If you don't respect the police, your
children won't.
If you don't respect the government,
your children won't.
If you don't respect the teachers who
teach your children, your children
won't. If you don't respect other
people, your children won't.
If you don't respect older people, your
children won't.
It starts there.
That's right. But that's not all there
is to it. Because if all you do is say,
make sure you say yes sir and yes,
ma'am, and that's all you do or tell
them you better hold that door for your
mama. That that's that's great. But if
there isn't a you better do what I say
or this something's coming. If there's
no fear after that because one of the
great things about reverence is fear.
You reverence God, right? Why do you
reverence God? Because quite honestly,
folks, anybody that can make the
universe as we know it should be feared.
You should fear him. Don't mess him
around. Oh, but God's love and he he's
just going to be good. Yeah, that's God.
But you better respect him because he's
not to be trifled with. He's not a
human.
He's not us. You can't kill him. You
don't like who he is, it won't undo him
a little bit. Well, I just don't believe
in a God like that. What difference does
that make?
Well, I don't think God would ever. What
difference does that make? It doesn't
change a thing. He is what he is, and he
always will be what he always will be.
And you can't undo it no matter what you
think about it.
So maybe, maybe, just maybe, we ought to
show a great deal of reverential respect
for him. Amen. That the idea of him
being holy that and other and different.
Yes, he is. And you need to respect it.
Because what you going to do on the day
of judgment? You're going to get up
there and say, "You going to treat me
like this?"
Really? No. So that's where it flows
from, but it's somewhere else.
It's more than that.
1 Timothy 5 and verse 8. But if anyone
does not provide for his own, especially
those of his own household, he's denied
the faith and is worse than an
unbeliever. So where do they really
learn that respect?
You show up
and you take care of them. And if they
know you're going to take care of them,
then they're afraid of losing your love.
It isn't so much they're afraid of your
whipping.
They're afraid of losing your love and
your respect.
They fear that
because how are they going to make it
without you?
So that love for them, that reverence
towards your family because you treat
your family like it's the most sacred
thing there is cuz it is to you
and they learn that
and so they treat you like you're the
most sacred person, right? The sacred
mother.
So an elers's children must be under
control as a result of his reverence. So
that's the simple lesson tonight. Those
three little things. His role as a
father, he makes rules and he teaches
reverence. That's how they develop this
life of being under control. Elder
nominees and fathers may feel like you
may feel like that you don't make a
difference.
You may be thinking that well what
difference have I made? Well, maybe you
mean more than you think you do. There's
been quite a few studies that have
suggested it. Let me quote a few. Paul
Amato and Fernando Rivera in uh paternal
involvement and children's behavior
problem said this. 82% of studies
published since 1980 found quote
significant association between positive
father involvement and offspring
well-being. This isn't the Bible. That's
just people figuring that out. Ronald
Roner and whatever the first name was,
Venziano.
The importance of father's love. History
and contemporary evidence. This is their
conclusion. Over 100 studies found that
having a loving and nurturing father was
as important for a child's happiness,
well-being, and social and academic
success as having a loving and nurturing
mother. And some studies even indicate
father's love was a stronger contributor
to their success. And that's not the
Bible. That's humans. Richard Coinster
said this. It was a study of the family
origins of emphatic uh empathetic,
excuse me, concern a 26-year
longitudinal
never could say that word study. It was
a long study. This is what they said. It
was published in 1990. Researchers found
that the number one factor in developing
empathy in children was father's
involvement.
Do y'all remember Irma Bombbeck? Anybody
remember her?
And you can tell these young people
don't know who in the world I'm talking
about. Y'all y'all miss something. If
you miss Irma. Yeah. You miss somebody.
She was an American humorist and she
wrote about 15 books of humor. It was
good. Good stuff. Good to listen to her.
She wrote about a little girl who loved
her daddy but wasn't sure what dads are
or what they do. Can I read that to you?
It's just for a short story. She wrote
this. One morning, my father didn't get
up and go to work.
He went to the hospital and died the
next day.
I hadn't thought that much about him
before.
He was just someone who left and came
home and seemed glad to see everyone at
night. He opened the jar of pickles when
no one else could.
He was the only one in the house. He
wasn't afraid to go into the basement by
himself.
He cut himself shaving, but no one
kissed it or got excited about it.
It wasn't un it was understood when it
rained he got the car and brought it
around to the door.
When anyone was sick, he went out to get
the prescription filled.
He took lots of pictures,
but he was never in them.
Whenever I played house, the mother doll
had to do a lot. Had a lot to do. I
never knew what to do with the daddy
doll, so I had him say, "I'm going off
to work." And I threw him under the bed.
The funeral was in our living room and a
lot of people came and brought all kinds
of good food and cakes.
We had never had so much company before.
I went to my room,
felt under the bed for the daddy doll.
When I found him, I dusted him off and
put him on my bed.
He never did anything,
but I didn't know his leaving would hurt
so much.
Maybe you're more important than you
think you are, Dads.
So, it makes sense if you're going to be
a church leader,
that you have good wife that matches
that.
And it makes sense if you're going to be
a church leader that your children's
should kind of match who you are.
That's true for all of us, by the way.
It only makes sense
that our families ought to match who we
are.
That our wife, our husband, our sons,
our daughters should kind of look like
all of us. In fact, you ought to be able
to pick out a family and say, "Well, I
know that family. They're like that,
right?
Whether you believe it or not, that is
the way it is.
People know families and they say, "I
know that family and they know what that
family's like."
It's true for us all, not just church
leaders. Are we believers?
If we are believers, then we need to
strive to fulfill our roles, whether
father or mother.
We need to strive to have good rules,
whether father or mother. By the way,
children sometimes have rules, too. And
that's okay, too.
And we need to have reverence.
We need to have reverence and respect
within the home. Don't allow your
fathers in the home, moms, to be
disrespected. And fathers, don't ever
allow your children to disrespect the
mom if they want to live with you.
You know, they've got to show some kind
of respect and respect for others.
I want to be on my child's side, right?
But probably
I'm going to be on the teacher's side,
at least in front of the teacher.
And that's not because the teacher's
right.
That's because my children need to see
that I respect that position and I need
to and they need to see it.
We may get home and there may be a
different story, but at the time, right?
And if you're in front of a police
officer, don't touch them, kids.
Don't touch them and don't talk to them
unless they talk to you. Leave them
alone. Walk away from them. They tell
you to do something when you're jumping
to do do it. Say, "Now, how high do you
want me to go, officer?" Just do what
they say and you'll stay out of trouble
most of the time. But it's all about
reverence and respect really. Because if
you really reverence God, then really
you respect the role of a mother and
father. If you really reverence God, you
respect the rules of God and respect the
rules of your household. If you really
reverence God, you're actually under
control. And so children can easily be
under the control of a man who would be
an elder because
of the reverence for God. If you're here
tonight, you've never given your life to
the good Lord, then we want to give you
that opportunity. You may need to repent
of your sins, confess the name of
Christ, and be baptized. Had baptism
this morning. Wasn't that wonderful?
Amen. Was that wonderful? Yeah. I I
think equally wonderful seeing him
baptize his son like that, Caleb. But I
I just think it was wonderful to see the
the trip around the room. Did you see
that? How many people were around the
room this morning? I remember when we
first started doing it about 30 years
ago and we couldn't even make it around
the room over at Bell Scholes. Y'all
remember that? Those of you who went
back there that far, couldn't even get
around the room there. So, God has
blessed us.
We'll wait on you just like we did this
morning if you need to come. Won't you
come while we stand and while we sing?
