Since it's a topic that was picked kind
of for me, I like to get as simple as I
can and go to the most basic root thing
which is Genesis.
And so I want to look in Genesis in the
very basic way that communication
happened there and see if we can see
what was going on there and see what
those breakdowns in communication were
so that we can learn how to overcome
those communication breakdowns. Okay.
Heard a little girl that asked her dad
um
dad how did the human race get started?
He said, 'Well, God made Adam and Eve
and they had children and so all mankind
was made from that. That seemed to
satisfy her. A couple of days later, she
asked her mom the same question, and her
mom answered, "Well, many years ago,
there were monkeys from which the human
race evolved."
So, she's confused by these two stories.
So she goes back to her dad said, "Uh,
how is it possible, Dad, that you told
me the human race was created by God?"
And mom said they developed from
monkeys. And dad said, "Well, that's
very simple. I told you about my side of
the family." And
that's not good communication. By the
way,
uh Adam and Eve may have had great may
have had a great marriage. They had some
things that we don't have. So, they may
have had a great marriage. Uh obviously,
Adam couldn't talk about his mother's
cooking.
And Eve couldn't talk about all the men
she turned down.
Eve could have been though quite jealous
of Adam. Imagine that if she had been
jealous. And Adam comes in late and Eve
said, "Uh, you're running around with
other women, aren't you? I know it. You
are, aren't you? Just be honest with me.
Tell me, you're running around with
other women."
And he'd say, "Well, well, don't be
ridiculous. You're the only woman in the
world for me."
But she keeps questioning him, poking
him, questioning. Finally, Adam gets
tired of this and he kind of rolls over
and he falls asleep a little bit, starts
poking him in the side. He wakes up and
he said, "What in the world are you
doing, Eve?" Said, "I'm counting your
ribs,
lot of no trust, funny communication,
funny how you can get blamed for
things." I want to talk a little bit
about that tonight.
Since the time of Adam and Eve though, I
think our biggest struggle with
communication is when we simply assume
things. We do a lot of assuming.
Now, maybe you don't, but most of us do.
We assume a lot of things. We say things
and when you hear these kind of
statements, you got to know you may be
doing some assuming or your mate may be
it makes perfect sense to me
or
how could I ever be any clearer
or why can't you understand what I'm
saying? Or
what do I have to do to get through to
you? or do I have to say it again?
If you've ever heard such things,
there's a lot of assumption
assuming that the other person should
easily understand what you're saying.
But it can be hard for husbands and
wives to communicate because
honestly were made very different.
Originally, they may have been one thing
and that may be the idea of taking the
ri out. I don't know. But fundamentally,
uh, we're very different. I heard about
this couple sitting out on a swing on
the front porch. Y'all remember doing
that sort of thing once upon a time? I
sat out on the swing on the front porch
and uh they were kind of up on a hill
and down in the valley, quite a ways
away, was a little church. And there was
obviously a choir practice going on. And
so she's sitting there with the guy
she's in love with and she's beautiful
and he's a nice looking fella and
they're swinging away and parents inside
and they're swinging outside and that
music is wafting up the valley and uh
so underneath the porch
there's crickets going on. You know,
y'all heard that chirping. So you hear
the singing and then there's chirping.
Well, he's hearing that chirping and he
starts thinking about fishing. You want
to go fishing and listening to the
crickets chirp and she on the other hand
is thinking romantically. They're very
much in love and so she's thinking
romantically. So she says this, "Isn't
that she's talking about the choir
music? Isn't that the most beautiful
thing you've ever heard?" He's thinking
about fishing and he says it is. They
tell me they make that noise by rubbing
their legs together.
You can communicate and not communicate.
Uh because Adam and Eve were so
different though, I think that's part of
why we struggle. We are different. We're
actually very different. It's hard to
admit that a lot of times because we
expect the other person to think like we
think, talk like we talk, and be able to
communicate the way we think we're
communicating. But we have to learn to
restrain our lips. We shouldn't say
everything that's in our head. Proverbs
10 verse 19, he restrains his lips as
wise.
We need to learn to be a little slower
to speak sometimes. Sometimes we're
pretty fast to say something. We need to
be a little slower. James 1 19 says, "Be
swift to hear and slow to speak." In
Proverbs 18:21, it says that life is in
the power of the tongue. And I think we
know that's true because with the word
you can just make somebody's day, but
also it goes on to say death is in the
power of the tongue. Be careful. You can
clip somebody's legs out from under them
and they'll never be the same. James 3
and verse 6 says, "The tongue is a fire
and it's set on fire by hell." It's
really a dangerous thing to let it loose
to say whatever you want. We must
communicate and we must learn how to
understand each other. 1 Peter 3 and:7
in that context of man and woman, it
says you're to live with your wives in
an understanding way. I don't think it
means that we're going to understand
each other completely, but I do believe
we should live in an understanding way
and do the best we can. There's always
going to be some tension there because
we are so different and there are
differences of way of thinking and we
are under a curse and we'll talk about
that a little bit. But I just want to
make about three little points and then
we'll be done for the evening. So I'm
not going to take too long here
hopefully. Hopefully. So let's look
number one
um overcoming communication breakdowns
in our listening. Mark 4 and verse 15
they hear Satan comes immediately and
takes away the word sown in their heart.
This is talking about the parable of the
swer. Verse 23 says if anyone has ears
to hear let him hear. Jesus says that
often. You may not realize this, but
listening is a real problem.
Listening.
Eve listened to the wrong one. Eve
listened to the wy one, the Satan, more
than she listened to God. And that's the
beginning of her problem. Wasn't that
she wasn't listening. She's listening to
the wrong one. In Genesis 3:es 1-5, let
me read it again for you. Let the
serpent. And now the serpent was more
cunning than any beast of the field
which the Lord God had made. And he said
to the woman, "Has God indeed said, you
shall not eat of every tree of the
garden?" And the woman said to the
serpent, "We may eat the fruit of the
trees of the garden, but of the fruit of
the tree which is in the midst of the
garden." God has said, "You shall not
eat it, nor shall you touch it, lest you
die." I don't know about that touching
thing that might have been said, but in
what we read, we don't see that. Verse
four. Then the serpent said to the
woman, "You will not surely die. For God
knows that in the day you eat of it,
your eyes will be opened and you will be
like God, knowing good and evil."
Her problem was she was listening to the
wrong one.
She was listening to this really clever
person, this really clever being that's
twisted the truth. On the other hand,
what about Adam? Adam also had a problem
with listening. Adam listened to the
woman more than he listened to God. I
still think that's a real problem,
gentlemen. I think we're we're so in
tune with not losing the woman we got.
Uh that's more important sometimes than
anything else.
Adam listened to the woman more than
God. Genesis 3:17. Then to Adam he said,
"Because you have heeded the voice of
your wife and have eaten from the tree
of which I commanded you, saying, you
shall not eat of it." So it's not wrong
to listen to your wife no more than it's
wrong to listen to your husband, which
is what she should have done. She should
have listened to her husband. She should
have listened to God. Adam should have
listened to God and not listened to his
wife. That's what should have happened.
But there's a real problem with
listening. And I think that's at the
root of 90% of our communication issues.
Are you hearing me? Are you listening?
That's a problem. It's hard to hear what
you're not hearing.
We must not ignore God. We must not
ignore our mate.
We have to be active listeners. So
here's some suggestions. Focus on
understanding.
I think two women talking will
misunderstand each other and I think two
men talking will un misunderstand each
other from time to time. But when you
have a man and a woman talking it's more
likely that you will misunderstand each
other more often.
It is a different way of reasoning and
thinking. So what you should be doing
when you are having a conversation is
focusing on understanding. Quit thinking
you got this. Focus on understanding.
That means avoid interrupting them when
they're in the middle of saying
something.
Don't think you got it. I'll cut in. Big
mistake to cut in before you got the
whole thought. And then one of the best
ways to make sure you understood is
reflect it back on them like a mirror. I
hear you saying this, is that what you
mean?
I found most of the time, no, that's not
what they meant when I reflect it back.
So, we need to focus on how we do it.
There was a Broadway producer, his name
was Jed Harris, and he was convinced
that he was losing his hearing.
He thought it was all going to go away.
And so he decided to go to a specialist.
He went to a hearing specialist.
And the hearing specialist said, "Uh, so
you think you're losing your hearing?"
Said, "Yes." So the hearing specialist
pulled off his watch. He said, "You see
this watch?" And he made sure it was
wound up. This back in the day and it's
ticking. Okay. And he said, "Can you
hear this?" And he said, "Of course I
can hear that. It's ticking." He said,
"Okay, hold what you got." He stood up,
walked over to the door a few feet away.
Can you hear this now? And said, "Yeah,
I can hear it ticking."
He said, "Okay, hold what you got." He
went out in the hall, closed the door.
"Can you hear it now?" And he listened
very closely. Said, "Yeah, doc, I can
hear it." So he came back in and this is
what the doctor said. "Mr. Harris,
there's nothing wrong with your hearing.
You just don't listen.
Wow.
So, we must overcome communication
breakdowns in the number one place is we
want to talk but we don't want to
listen.
Spend a little more time listening.
Number two,
overcoming communication breakdowns
is related to our lusting.
That's right. Now, I know you you equate
the word lust with always sinful, but
lust is just the same word as desiring.
It says in Psalm 106:14, "They lusted
exceedingly in the wilderness and tested
God."
What ends up happening is when you want
something bad enough, you often end up
doing the wrong thing.
Eve lusted in this text. What did she
lust for?
She lusted for wisdom
more than she lusted or desired God.
Listen to Genesis 3:6. So when the woman
saw that the tree was good for food,
that it was pleasant to the eyes, and a
tree desirable to make one wise, she
took of its fruit and ate. She thought
it was going to make her smarter.
Okay,
I think if you're not mistaken, listen
to me, ladies. I'm going to talk to you
just a second. I'm going to talk to men
in a second. Ladies,
there's a smart problem.
Is it just me that I'm perceiving this,
but there's a tendency that I've seen in
our culture where women want to believe
they're smarter than men.
Now you may be, but I think that desire,
that lust for being the smart one is
creating problems.
It's not that you're smarter. That's not
creating the problem.
It's the desire to be the smart one.
You hear me?
Quit desiring to be the smart one in
your relationship.
You do yourself a lot of good if you
quit thinking you're so smart or wanting
to be the smart one in the relationship.
It became a problem here.
Now, what about the man? Adam lusted for
the woman.
That's right. His thing wasn't that I
don't even know if he wanted to eat the
thing, but he knew if he didn't eat it,
he wasn't going to have the girl.
Okay, listen to me, gentlemen. I'm going
to read the scripture and then I'm going
to make a comment about that. Verse 16.
And the Lord God commanded the man
saying, "Of every tree of the garden,
you may freely eat. Of the tree of the
knowledge of good and evil, you shall
not eat. For in the day that you eat of
it, you shall surely die." And then
chapter 3, verse 6, she took of the
fruit and ate, and she also gave to her
husband with her, and he ate.
Gentlemen,
I think women are too important to us.
And by that I would say without being
too vulgar, sex
is too important to men.
It's too important.
And so what I'm suggesting to you is
because of that, a man will do things he
shouldn't do,
whatever it takes.
And that shouldn't be us.
She ain't worth it.
And I don't mean anything ugly towards
you ladies. I'm talking about the man's
problem.
Keeping a woman at any cost is not worth
it.
Confirmation bias though helps a person
believe whatever he wants to believe and
we have a real problem with that.
Confirmation bias is seen in like
prosperity gospel. We want to believe if
I go to church all the time and I pray
and I give and I fast and I do all these
things that life will be slick. It'll be
easy. I'll have money. I'll have
everything I want. And if you don't have
those things, it's because you didn't do
all the things I did. We we we want to
believe that that's true. Even though
we'll get up and we'll teach, oh, we
don't believe in prosperity gospel in
the church of Christ. We'll preach that,
but we want to believe it.
We have a confirmation bias. So, we just
see the things. It's like people who
believe in flat earth. If you believe in
flat earth, talk to me later. I don't
want to have a conversation right now
about it. But the bottom line is they
believe in flat earth not because the
evidence but because they want to
believe in it.
It's like the moon landing. You don't
believe in the moon landing. It's not
because there's not plenty of evidence
that there was a moon landing. It's
because you got a confirmation bias. So
you look for everything that suggests
there wasn't a moon landing.
It's like believing your perfect
parents. Now I I know probably none of
you think this way, but I've run into a
lot of people in the church that think
they were perfect parents. almost makes
me want to gag myself with a spoon. The
bottom line, okay, you weren't
you weren't you aren't
you didn't do it all right. You're a
sinner. Raising little munchkin sinners.
Okay, there's the truth. Okay, but you
can believe something so much so that
you start believing you've really done
it better than anybody you've ever seen.
And of course, our kids don't sin.
I'm a perfect communicator.
No, you're not.
No, you're not. Uh, but my mate is
terrible. No, they're not.
You hear me? We That's called
confirmation bias. The reason we argue
is them.
How many times have I had somebody in my
office, Dwight? How many times you had
somebody in your office and it was their
fault?
All of them.
If you've been to see me, I'm
criticizing you. Everybody ever comes,
it's always the other one.
Okay? Every divorce I've seen, it was
the other one's fault. Wasn't their
fault. It was the other person's fault.
It's just that way. Confirmation bias.
We see everything that supports what we
want to believe about that. And so when
it comes to this subject, I'm just
telling you there is a desire to think
for women smart. For men, got to have
the woman.
Bill Hicks,
a stand-up comedian, said this one time,
and this is kind of ugly, but I love it.
I learned a lot about women. Please,
women, this is a comedian. Don't take
this the wrong way. I'm not saying
anything bad about you. You're going to
think I am, but I'm not. So, I learned a
lot about women. I think I've learned
exactly how the fall of man occurred in
the Garden of Eden. Adam and Eve were in
the Garden of Eden. And Adam said one
day, "Wow, Eve, here we are at one with
nature, at one with God. We'll never
age. We'll never die. And all our dreams
come true the instant with that we have
them." And Eve said, "Yeah, it's just
not enough, is it?"
I do think that there is a tendency, now
I'm going to get on the man a minute, to
think, listen to me, gentlemen, you
never get enough sex.
And there's a tendency in the woman to
think
you always want to be a little smarter.
And I think both of those are creating a
lot of friction.
So we must overcome communication
breakdowns in our lusting. Third lesson.
You don't have to agree with me, but I
hope you take a moment to think about
it. Overcoming communication breakdowns
in labeling. Ephesians 1:4 says, "He
chose us in him that we should be holy
without blame.
He wants us to be without blame.
Eve covered herself by deception and
blame and lieling. It says in Genesis 3
7 and 8, then the eyes of both of them
were open
and they knew that they were naked and
they sewed fig leaves together and made
themselves coverings. Why? And they
heard the sound of the Lord God walking
in the garden in the cool of the day.
And Adam and his wife hid themselves.
Why? From the presence of the Lord God.
That's why among the trees of the
garden. In Genesis 3-16,
it says, "And the Lord God said to the
woman, what is this you have done?" And
the woman said, "The serpent deceived me
and I ate." So the Lord God said to the
serpent, "Because you've done this,
you're cursed." Verse 15, he talks about
her seed and he shall bruise your head
and you'll bruise his heel. That's a pro
prophetic utterance about the virgin
birth of Jesus Christ. Verse 16, to the
woman he said, I will greatly multiply
your sorrow and your conception in pain.
You shall bring forth children. Your
desires shall be for your husband, and
he shall rule over you.
But uh she was in deception.
Adam was a little different. So she was
she was deceived. We know that's true
because 1 Timothy 2:14 says she was
deceived.
Adam, on the other hand, was not
deceived. Never says that about him.
Adam covered himself by deflection.
Adam knew what he was doing and did it
anyway.
And then he deflected with blame and
labeling. It says in verse 12 of Genesis
2 3, then the man said the the woman
whom you gave to be with me. So he's
blaming the woman, but he's blaming God.
So it's the woman and God is the
problem. Not me. I didn't do anything.
That's what he's saying. It's
And then verse 17, then to Adam he said,
"Because you have heeded the voice of
your wife." It's not a problem listening
to her. It's listening to her above him
because what he says next, "And have
eaten from the tree of which I commanded
you, saying you shall not eat of it.
Cursed
uh is the ground." And then he says,
"Toil and you'll live by toil all that."
Verse 16, thorns and thistles, and you
shall eat the herb. And verse 19, in the
sweat of your face, you'll live till you
return to the ground. You're going to
die, for out of it you were taken. For
dust you are, and to dust you shall
return. And so death passed upon us all
through him. But he tried to deflect it.
woman tried to basically blame the
devil, but he tried to blame God and the
woman.
You know, I think one of the biggest
problems, the reason we don't
communicate well is we're proud.
Who's proud? You are. I am.
You know, the ones that are the most
proud are the people who think they're
humble.
You got to be aware of everybody who
really thinks they're humble. Don't ever
believe them. Especially when you start
thinking, "Man, I was really humble
today."
You should be afraid of yourself. Okay?
Cuz nine times out of 10, when you think
you've been humble, that's when you're
being proud.
It humbles God to look at this world.
That's how great he is. That's what
humility is. You You've got nothing on
that scale. You got nothing like that.
You've never been that humble or
anything like that. So, you really don't
know what humility is.
But what I want to get to is
we're so proud sometimes we expect
things we shouldn't expect. We blame
when we shouldn't blame. We even label
each other and we label each other. We
blame. Label liel. What do you want to
say? Because we magically expect the
other person to understand us without
any effort. In fact, they should be able
to understand us even if I don't say
anything to them about it. You ought to
know what I'm I'm thinking. You ought to
know how I'm feeling. How ridiculous is
that? But that's what we will expect.
It's more than that. We expect flawless
communication when we don't speak
flawlessly, but we expect the other one
to be flawless in their communication.
That's ridiculous. We expect them to
meet not just some of our needs, all of
our needs. And how ridiculous is that?
There's so many of your needs. The only
one that can meet it is either God or
you. You. No one else can do it. It's
either God or you. We expect them to
change, not me. So, I must be able to
have a conversation and you should
change. I'm not going to change because
I wasn't wrong. You must change. What's
wrong with you that you can't change?
Cuz that's what obviously has to happen
here. And then of course, we are in the
middle of trying to hold someone
responsible for our happiness. As if the
reason I'm not happy, I'm just not
happy. Brother Dutton, I I'm not happy.
You think anybody's responsible for
that? There's nobody on the planet
responsible for you being happy.
And certainly not your mate, not your
mama, not your daddy. There's nobody,
Listen to me, young people, there's
nobody responsible for you being happy.
The government's not responsible for it.
The whole world's not responsible for
it. Your church is not responsible for
it. Your husband, your wife's not
responsible. Your parents aren't
responsible. Your children aren't
responsible for their parents being
happy. Guess who's responsible for you
being happy? You
decide to be happy. That's how you do
it. How simple is that? But what we want
to do is we want to blame somebody,
liable them, and say, "You're the reason
I'm not happy."
And so now I'm justified if I leave you.
and justified.
One day, Adam was out hunting with his
two boys. I guess it was Cain and Abel.
I don't know. It's before that event.
And came upon the Garden of Eden. Yeah.
It was still there. They could see it.
And that's where they'd been kicked out
for eating the forbidden fruit. And Adam
just stared, just got stunned. Staring
at the Garden of Eden. Couldn't go in,
but he's just staring at it. And then a
tear started rolling down his face, was
looking at the garden and just tearing
up. One of the boys said, "Daddy,
what's wrong with you? Why are you
crying?"
He said, "Well, wiped away the tear."
And he says, "Boys,
that's the Garden of Eden right there.
That's where we used to live till mom
made us out of house and home." It's so
easy to blame
somebody for our troubles. It's so easy.
Dr. Gary Chapman in the five love
languages, uh, the secret to love that
last told this story. I need to tell
this story and then I'm about done. It's
about a lady who walked into his office
one day. Here's what she said. She said,
"Have you got a minute, doctor?"
Sure. Come on in. Well, Dr. Chapman, I
have got a problem. I can't get my
husband to paint our bedroom.
I've been after him for nine months.
I've tried everything I know and I can't
get him to paint it.
Dr. Chapman almost kicked her out of the
room because he said, "I'm, you know,
I'm not a paint contractor." But anyway,
he said, "Well, tell me all about it."
So, she said, "Well, last Saturday was a
good example. Last Saturday, you
remember how pretty it was? Do you know
that my husband did? You know what he
did all day long? He worked on updating
his computer.
So, what did you do? Chapman said,
"Well, while I went in there and said,
Dan, I don't understand you. Today, you
have been given a perfect day to paint
the bedroom, and here you are working on
your computer.
So Chapman said, "Well, did he paint the
bedroom?" He said, "No, he still didn't
paint it. Hadn't painted it. Now I don't
know what to do. How am I going to get
him to paint the bedroom?" He says,
"Well, let me ask you a question. Are
you opposed to computers?" Said, "No,
but I want the bedroom painted."
Well, are you certain that your husband
knows you want the bedroom painted? I
know he does. I've been after him for
nine months to paint that bedroom. Well,
let me ask you one more question.
Does your husband ever do anything good?
Like what?
Oh, like taking the garbage out or
getting bug bugs bug juice off the
windshield of the car you drive or maybe
putting gas in the car or paying the
electric bill or hanging up his coat.
Does he do anything like that? Well,
yeah, he does some of those things.
Then I have two suggestions.
One, don't ever mention painting the
bedroom again. Don't ever mention it
again.
Well, I don't understand how that's
going to help. How's that going to get
my bedroom painted? What's that going to
do? Well, look, you just told me that he
knows you want the bedroom painted.
You don't have to tell him anymore. You
just had he knows nine months. He knows.
He already knows. So, that's my first
suggestion. Don't mention it again.
Second suggestion I have is that the
next time your husband does anything
good, give him a verbal compliment.
If he takes the garbage out, say, "Dan,
I want you to know that I really
appreciate you taking the garbage out."
Don't say, "About time you took the
garbage out. The flies were going to
carry it all for you if you didn't do
it." If you see him paying the electric
bill,
um, put your hand on his shoulder and
say, "Dan, I really appreciate you
paying the electric bill.
I hear there are husbands who don't do
that, and I want you to know how much I
appreciate it." Or, "I really appreciate
you taking the kids off my hands when I
have to finish that project." every time
he does anything good, give him a verbal
compliment.
She said, "I don't see how in the world
that's going to get my bedroom painted."
He said, "You asked for my advice. You
have it. It's free."
She was not happy,
but she left his office miserable
sounding. Three weeks later, she came
back and simply said, "It worked."
Verbal compliments are far greater
motivations for us all.
For us all, we must overcome
communication breakdown by our liv. We
got to quit blaming
everything, telling them what's wrong
with them.
if you want to communicate. Well, so
that's the lesson tonight. I mean,
basically,
apparently, there it goes. That's the
whole thing. You know, some women,
some women have gone out, some of you
ladies, listen to me. Some women have
gone out and they found a frog
and they kissed it
and said nice things to it and it turned
into a prince.
But some women have gone out and found a
prince
and they kissed it and said some words
to it and it became a frog.
Men speak, he used to say women speak
more words than men. That's not true.
Well, it's a little bit true. Uh men's
words on the average day is 15,669.
Women on the average are 16,215.
Couple hundred difference. Not any
different. That's not any difference.
That's that's so close you might as well
say it's the same. It's the same. So the
idea that one of us needs to be more
careful with what we say than the other
is just not true. We both need to be
careful with what we say, right? We need
to be careful with how we talk, how we
think toward each other. That's just the
way it is. And if you're not mistaken,
you you will be mistaken because uh
words that we say can be misconstrued
and we often don't communicate very
well. Even when we say the thing we mean
to say sometimes it's not understood.
For example,
scintillate scintillate global vivific
fan would I fathom thy nature specific
lofty poised in the ether capacious
strongly resembling a gem carbaceious.
The real translation of that is twinkle
twinkle little star, how wonder what you
are up above the world so high like a
diamond in the sky. It's all about the
way you say it sometimes and whether or
not it can be understood what you're
trying to say. What are we trying to
say? Are we really trying to
communicate? Are we really trying to
understand each other? Or are we really
just trying to pontificate? There's a
big difference. Jed Garoover used to run
the FBI
and he ran the FBI. Believe me, he was
the boss. He ran the FBI and there was
no question about it. So all of his
subordinates, they were all scared of
him. All the people in the FBI are
scared of him. So the people who worked
in the office were quite nervous around
the boss. Okay? And so they're always
trying to impress him. Well, one guy got
put over uh supplies and so he wanted to
impress Jed Garoover. you know, he
wanted to save the FBI some money and so
he rearranged and fixed the memo papers
and he made them much smaller and he
thought he'd save a lot of money on
paperwork, right? And so he did that.
Few weeks passed and finally a copy of
the new memo got on to Jar Hoover's
desk. This really happened. So he looks
at it. first thing he does is size it
up. And here's what he said. Uh he
scribbled a little memo on it and he
said, "Watch the borders." Looking at it
because he thought it was just a little
too narrow. Watch the borders.
The next six weeks, the Canadian border
and the Mexico border had FBI agents all
over it because they were so scared of
not doing what he said. They were all
watching the borders
because they thought he meant watch the
borders. It was on his little memo
sheet.
And so I'm just suggesting to you is be
careful what you say because it really
even something innocuous can hurt
somebody really bad and cause them
trouble the rest of their life. Do we
argue because we never fully understand
not really listening to each other? Do
we argue because we never fully
understand what is desired by the other
and we lust for things we should not
have?
Do we argue because we never fully
understand and we just blame each other
liabiling, labeling, blaming them for
all that's wrong in our life. You know,
no one can be saved if he can't learn to
hear. If you can't learn to listen, you
can't be saved. Hearing is first. You
first must hear before you can believe.
You hear, believe, repent, confess,
baptized. You're baptized, you still got
to hear him. You got to listen. So
listening is where we started tonight
and it's where we're going to end.
I don't know how to help you cuz I'm
struggling with the same thing.
Pray with me.
Holy Father,
help us to listen.
It's in the name of Jesus we pray.
