It is a blessing to be with all of you
guys this morning. I want to wish a very
uh warm welcome to all of our visitors
this morning. We are so grateful that
God uh has brought you our way and you
guys are our honored uh guests this
morning. And so I hope that you will
find us uh to be a loving uh and an
encouraging congregation because that's
what we are seeking uh to be. That's
what we are praying to be. That's what
we are trying to be. I do want to say
thank you to Rex and to the elders. I do
appreciate this opportunity. Over the
last several months, uh there have been
several men uh who have had the
opportunity to stand up here and prepare
a lesson and to give a lesson. And I am
uh honored to be a part of that. Uh but
I will tell you this is probably my
first and my last Sunday morning.
this. Um, I thought I wanted to be a
preacher.
I'm good being an accountant.
If you guys have your Bibles, please
turn with me to Matthew 23. We're going
to be uh looking at verses 1 through 12
this morning. And this is a this is a
difficult text. Uh this is a difficult
application.
Uh but for the last eight months or so,
I have done a deep dive uh to the best
of my ability into
uh the Pharisees. And the more that I
have studied
the Pharisees and the more uh that I've
gotten to know about the Pharisees, not
just what the Bible says about the
Pharisees, but even what Jewish
literature says about the Pharisees, uh
my heart uh has been pricricked.
And the more that I read and the more
that I studied,
the more I honestly I saw a Pharisee in
myself.
And so I want to share with you this
morning a couple of takeaways from
Matthew 23. But I also want you guys to
know that anything that I'm preaching
this morning, I'm preaching to myself.
every single one of the points that I
have up here this morning, uh, I
identified in myself. And so, uh, one of
my favorite preachers, uh, he has a
saying, Rex says, you know, amen walls.
Uh, that's not my favorite preacher. Uh,
but my my favorite preacher will say, if
you can't say amen, you ought to say
ouch.
And so I don't expect any of you guys to
say ouch this morning, but I can tell
you that when I was preparing this
lesson,
I said ouch far more times than I said
amen. And so before we begin, please uh
please pray with me.
Holy Father, we come to you now and we
are just so honored to be in your
presence. We are just so grateful for
all that you have done for us. Father,
we we know that we can be prideful.
We know that we can be selfish.
Father, we know that we can put our own
interests and our own wants and desires
uh before your glory.
And so, Father, we ask that as we go
through this study, uh, that you will
prick our hearts, that you will help us
to identify areas
where we can
do better, where we can align ourselves
with your will, where we can submit
ourselves
to your son, and Father, where we can
just be better Christians and shine a
better and a brighter light for you. We
are so grateful for Jesus and everything
that he does for us. It is in his name
that we pray. Amen.
All right. So, I've got quite a bit to
cover this morning. Uh it is possible
that I bit off a little bit more than I
can chew. Uh I'm grateful last night at
about 7:30. Bethany gave me a better
title for this sermon than I had for
myself. Problem was, I had two points
for every point. And with that uh change
of title, the second point of every
point no longer worked and it didn't
make sense. So I've already cut out half
of my sermon. So hopefully we'll get to
lunch on time today.
Jesus here is preaching. This is his
final sermon before his death. He is
preaching to the multitudes uh and to
his disciples. And he is preaching uh a
and talking about the scribes and uh the
Pharisees. And if I asked you guys what
you knew about the Pharisees, and I've
done this with several in preparation
for this lesson, the the resounding
feedback is that the Pharisees
uh they're known for their hypocrisy.
They're known for their legalism
and they're known for their pride. And
that's that's not wrong. Uh they are
portrayed very very negatively in the
Bible. If uh you have any old school
commentaries at your house, I I tell you
go open it up and read them and you will
see how terribly uh the Pharisees are
portrayed further than what Jesus has to
say about him. And so there's something
as I was studying this that that I
really want to look at and that's the
idea that uh hypocrisy and legalism,
those definitions
have kind of changed over the years.
They've evolved a little bit. Now in
today's society, hypocrisy just means
that you don't practice what you preach.
Uh and I think that's a
misunderstanding.
If you go back to the Greek word of what
uh hypocrite means, it is actually in
Jesus's time, it was a stage actor or it
was a pretender. And so these
characters, these actors would wear
multiple masks to portray multiple
characters within a play.
And so I don't think when Jesus is
calling them hypocrites, it's because of
what we read here uh in in verse three.
I think it's because they were
pretending to be something they weren't.
They were pretending to do what they
preached. And so uh legalism now often
used to describe meticulous obedience.
And uh meticulous obedience is not
legalism at all. Uh in fact, we are
called to obedience. I'll say it again
because you guys are going to find
stones here in about 10 minutes. We are
called to obedience. Okay, I want to get
that out there. Make sure everybody
heard that twice. Uh legalism, again,
not meticulous obedience. Legalism is
attributing your justification
to your obedience.
Legalism says I am righteous because I
do not do X or because I do do X. And so
now I am right with God. I have made
myself right with God
and I have a relationship with God
because I have obeyed.
And so for the Pharisees, legalism uh
leads to a high value of self
and it leads to a very very low value of
God's law. And for us today who are
subject and and um have tendencies of
legalism. Legalism leads again to a very
high value of self and a very low value
of God. A low value of his grace. It
leads to a very low value of the very
sacrifice of Jesus that we just
remembered in our communion.
And so if I go back and and through my
research and reading some of this Jewish
literature, if I could find a rabbitic
Jew, I'd go and ask them. Uh if you
asked the Jews
who Jesus or excuse me who the Pharisees
were, they would tell you a very very
different story than what the Bible
tells us. They would tell you that the
Pharisees were respected teachers that
they were very well-liked by the common
folk.
Uh they would tell you that they were
expert in scriptures. They were devoted
to study and keeping God's law. They
were admired for their discipline and
their passion for holiness and that they
were fair and consistent in their
interpretation and their application of
the law. Two completely different
realities. I'm going to go with the
Bible. Uh but it helps to know where the
Pharisees thought they were coming from.
Jesus calls them hypocrites, blind
guides, brood of vipers, children of
hell, whitewashed tombs. So I asked
myself, what happened? How could they
starting off be so sincere
and end up where Jesus feels so
passionately
about them? But the better question
through the study that I asked myself
is, could this happen to us? Could the
spirit of the Pharisee, the mask of
righteousness, pride,
self-righteousness, confidence in our
own efforts, creep into the church
today?
Can it creep into the lives of faithful
Christians
today? And clearly the world thinks it
has.
And I'd argue if we can't even consider
that possibility, uh, then we're in more
danger uh, than we realize. So this
morning, I'm going to try to be quick.
Uh I want to look at the five or at
least five masks of righteousness that
the Pharisees wore. And I want us to
reflect on these. Um and I want us to
think, is there a possibility in all of
our sincerity
that we might end up in the same boat as
the Pharisees?
in all of our sincerity and everything
that we try to do for God that Jesus
might think the same of us as he did the
Pharisees. And so we're going to start
point one is the mask of authority
picking up in verse one. Then Jesus
spoke to the multitudes and to his
disciples saying the scribes and the
Pharisees sit in Moses's seat. Now,
biblical authority uh has been
misunderstood and it has been abused uh
for centuries and that would take to go
into biblical authority that would take
an entire uh sermon on its own and I
don't want to do that. But what I do
want to point out because it's very
important is that the Pharisees assumed
Moses's authority. The translation here
of the New King James Version uh really
doesn't give a great job of the Greek.
It's just saying, "Hey, they sit there."
Uh, I believe the NIV, there's other
translations that say that the Pharisees
have set themselves in Moses's seat. And
that's important because Moses was uh
tasked with instructing the Israelites.
Moses was tasked with communicating
God's law to his people. And that
authority, Moses's authority came from
God.
And the words that Moses spoke were the
words of God. And so authority is in
God's law. It is in God's truth. It is
it not in Moses's truth. And so the
Pharisees assumed, they claimed that
authority. God allowed it to happen. But
he did not appoint them. And in the
Pharisees mind, they felt that they
respected the law. They they respected
and feared God. They desired to keep his
law. Uh Paul says that they were zealous
for righteousness. They had good
intentions at least originally. And so
in the synagogues they would teach uh
they would read from the written law
which is the law of Moses and then they
would teach their oral law which is the
tradition of men. And the oral law
became what is today called the Mishna.
And that was their code of conduct. It
gave them uh it was their commentary on
how to observe the law. It was their
commentary. It consisted of their
interpretation of the law and it
consisted of how to actually apply the
law in their daily lives.
So far it doesn't sound much different
than what we do here every Sunday
morning. Right?
And rabbitic Jews still to this day uh
the Mishna was combined with another
document to make the Talmud and they
still use that to this day.
And these traditions this oral law
became traditions which eventually
became rituals and requirements that
they put on the people. Verse three,
therefore whatever they tell you to
observe that observe and do but do not
do according to their works. For they
say and they do not do. And I I tell you
all of that about the law and how they
taught because there's something that's
usually misunderstood here. Jesus is not
talking about their sinfulness.
Jesus is not talking about the fact that
they're not perfect in their carrying
out of the law. What Jesus uh if it was
about perfection,
we wouldn't be here. There'd be no need
for church. there'd be no need for Bible
classes because if it was about
perfection, nobody could stand up here
and speak. There would be no more
sermons until Jesus came back. And so,
it's not about perfection.
It's not about hypocrisy. Like we said
before, saying something and not doing
it uh just makes you a sinner.
Uh we preach and teach things every week
that we struggle to uphold. So it's not
about the fact that they say and do not
do what this is about. What Jesus is
saying here is that hey when it comes to
the word of God when it comes to the law
of Moses you are bound by that you have
to do what they say when it comes to the
written word of God. But what he's
saying is not to do according to their
works. He's talking about the oral
tradition. He's talking about the oral
law which was their interpretation which
was their application of the law of
Moses. And so uh this is very important
because it shows us that there is
authority in the word of God. It also
shows us that there is no authority in
tradition. There is no authority in
opinion. There is no authority in
preference.
The Pharisees used their perceived
authority for personal gain. They used
it to exalt themselves. They used it to
control the narrative. They used it to
control even their image and how they
looked to others. They thought their
position of authority that they assumed
would protect them from criticism.
But position without submission is very
very dangerous. We need to remember that
any authority in the church
comes from God and God alone.
He is the source of authority. He is not
just another resource of authority. We
do not just go to him when our other
sources of authority run out. God is the
source of all authority. And any
authority in the church is still subject
to Christ as the head of the church.
And that authority that has been derived
from the word and potentially you could
say delegated to the leaders of today's
church is for the benefit of the church.
It is to protect the church. It's to
lead the church. It's to love the
church.
Any authority should reflect Christ's
character, his humility, and his
integrity. And that can only be done if
we are submitted to Christ ourselves.
Rex said it last week. We are all
ministers.
We all assume the authority of God when
we pick up the Bible and we talk about
it.
So if we are going to assume that
authority, we need to be in submission
to Christ ourselves. This isn't just for
elders. This isn't just for deacons.
This is for every member of the church.
We need to be in submission
to Christ ourselves. And so when we
confuse our authority with our
righteousness, we wear uh the mask of
authority. Number two is the mask of
additions. Uh picking up in verse four,
for they bind heavy burdens hard to bear
and lay them on men's shoulders, but
they themselves will not move them with
one of their fingers. Heavy burdens are
or are these traditions again they call
them fence laws. And these fence laws uh
originated because they valued God in
his law so much that they wanted to do
everything they could to avoid violating
the law.
And so we see that these fence laws in
and of themsel are are harmless
until they're not. When they're used
when these fence laws are used in a uh
good intention, they're fine.
when they are given and applied and
burdened onto somebody
and holding somebody accountable to the
fence law, they're no longer a good
thing. Two examples very quickly.
Sabbath day, uh, keep it holy, rest,
don't work. Well, that's not good
enough. What constitutes work? How far
can I walk? How much weight can I hold?
Can I cook ramen noodles for my wife?
Can I uh they they added 39 things that
constituted his work. Swatting a fly was
hunting. Can't hunt on Sabbath. Uh
spitting on the dirt was plowing. You
can't plow on Sabbath. Uh another
example, washing uh ritual washing.
Priests in Exodus 30, priests would wash
their hands and their feet before they
entered the tabernacle, before they went
to give a sacrifice. And so the Jews
said the or the Pharisees at least said,
"Well, hey, if it's good for the priest,
it's good for me."
Nothing wrong with washing your hands. I
hope you guys wash your hands. Nothing
wrong with that. Especially before you
eat.
The Jews wanted to avoid all unc
cleanliness. Cleanliness. But it wasn't
just about washing hands. They went all
the way down to their elbows. They made
a show out of what they were doing. And
there in the scripture, there are
arguments with Jesus on both of these
things. And what we see, especially if
you go read chapter 5 of the book of
Matthew, is that the Pharisees missed
the intention of the law. They
completely missed the intention of the
law. The intention of the law was to
guide them in their conduct. It was to
showcase God's righteousness,
to remember what God did for them,
freeing them from the bondage of slavery
in Egypt. Paul says in Galatians 3 that
the law was a tutor to point them to
Christ. And so the the law was never
intended to make them right with God.
God knew they could not keep it. God
demands perfection and God knew they
couldn't keep it. And so the law was
intended to reveal their sin. The the
law was uh intended to reveal their need
for a savior.
And when that Messiah that was promised
in the scriptures that they were experts
in showed up, they completely missed
them.
The Pharisees goal was not to create
overly burdensome rules that were
impossible to follow. It was to simplify
God's law to a point that was to
something that was manageable and that
was obtainable by the people.
They didn't want to modify the law. They
just wanted to update it in modern
terms. I can imagine when electricity
came around how much arguments there
were to update the Mishna on can we use
lights on Sabbath.
So they didn't just teach the law, they
taught the law plus
they taught a checklist
to earn their justification.
And this is legalism. It leads to a low
value of the law and a very high value
of self. In turn, they have taken and
made God's law about themselves.
Pharisees zeal caused them to elevate
their tradition above the law of God. Uh
the Mishna, there's a quote in the
Mishna that says, "It is a greater
offense to contradict the rabbis than it
is to contradict scripture."
And they took these traditions and they
bound them on people and they judged
them accordingly. And what they would do
is they would weigh out how many good
deeds you did versus how many bad deeds
you did. And as long as the good deeds
outweighed the bad deeds,
you were right with God.
And that's how this became so
burdensome. Uh Jesus says that they
violate the commandments of God to
uphold the tradition of men.
And this is the exact opposite of what
Jesus promises us. I don't have it on
the screen, but Matthew 11 28 through30,
uh Jesus says, "Come to me all you who
labor and are heavy laden, and I will
give you rest." Take my yoke upon you
and learn from me for I am gentle and
lowly in heart and you will find rest
for your souls. for my yoke is easy and
my burden is light.
And I I going through this, I had to
step back and I had to ask myself,
have have we essentially not done
what the Pharisees were doing?
I I brother Pickup, I appreciate your
contribution talk.
We preach that the gospel saves. We
preach that the gospel justifies. But
we've taken this gospel and we've made
it about ourselves.
The gospel is not about us.
Gospel is for us, but it's not about us.
The gospel is about our Lord and Savior
Jesus Christ. It is about his sacrifice.
It is about what Jesus has done.
I can't look at my wife right now.
So, the Pharisees teach the law plus and
we teach the gospel plus. And uh let me
get through this before you pick up your
stones. We we preach gospel plus
obedience.
We preach gospel plus attendance.
We preach gospel plus works.
We'll preach whatever gospel plus
whatever makes us feel comfortable
in our justification
in God's eyes. And hear me, if you come
back tonight, I'm going to preach on all
those things, Lord willing. And if the
elders let me,
what I'm saying is our obedience,
our attendance, our works are done
because of what Jesus has done for us.
They're not done because of what it does
for us. Church is not about us.
We come here together. We are the church
and we build one another up. This is not
about us. This is about lifting honor
and glory and praise to the almighty
God, but we've taken it and we've made
it about us. I didn't like the singing
this morning. Luke led those two really
slow songs and I don't have enough time
to preach today.
I've made it about myself. And so what
I'm saying is that if it wasn't for
Christ, obedience would just be morals
and ethics. And there are plenty of
non-believers out there with decent
morals and ethics. What I'm saying is is
if it wasn't for Christ, this right here
is just a social club.
And if it wasn't for Christ, I'm going
to be honest with you, I'd rather be at
the bar.
If it wasn't for Christ, our good works
are just being a good neighbor.
I'll take it a step further. I know you
guys are uncomfortable. Let's talk about
baptism.
If it wasn't for Jesus, if it wasn't for
the work of Jesus on the cross, baptism
is just a dip in the water
and we could all bathe a little bit
more. The gospel doesn't require these
things. The gospel produces these
things.
If the gospel required these things,
there would have been no reason for
Jesus to come. If creation could have
upheld the law to perfection like God
intended,
we could have crucified any one of us.
And so I asked myself, is is Christ
enough?
Was Jesus enough?
I go through scriptures and and
scriptures tell me that it's God who
justifies. Uh it tells me that we are
justified by his grace, that we are
justified by the blood of Christ. We are
justified by his resurrection, that we
are justified by faith.
And I asked myself, can I somehow add to
the work of Jesus on the cross?
And I'll tell you the answer is yes.
I did add to the work of Jesus on the
cross. I added for the need for him to
be on the cross.
That is the only addition. That is the
only contribution I have to the gospel
is that I needed it. I needed Jesus's
death on the cross. And so, we've
created a low value of the gospel and a
low value of the work of Christ. And
we've created a very high value of
oursel because my obedience makes me
right with God. My uh attendance makes
me right with God. My good works makes
me right with God. My contribution makes
me right with God. What makes me right
with God is the precious blood of Jesus
Christ.
And all of these things, if you're
uncomfortable, come back tonight. We're
going to talk about it. All of these
things are produced out of my
understanding of what Jesus has done for
me.
A high value of obedience, a low value
of self. Because of Jesus, I'm trying my
best. I grieve at my sin. I don't want
any part of it anymore. But I'm not
perfect,
but I'm perfected in Jesus.
A value, a high value of attendance, a
low value of self. Because of Jesus, I I
wouldn't dare miss an opportunity to get
here and commune with my Lord and
Savior, to fellowship with my brothers
and sisters. I wouldn't dare miss it.
I don't come here because it saves me. I
come here to honor, worship, and praise
the one who did.
I come to be edified. I come to be
equipped to lead my family, my young
family, in a very cruel and evil world.
High value of works, low value of self.
Because of Jesus, I want to do good
things for others. He's done what I
could not do for myself.
I want to go be the light now that I've
been called to be. I want to show love.
I want to show the love of Jesus to
others.
Not saved because of my good works.
My salvation
produces good works. The good works are
the fruit of my salvation. A high value
of the gospel, a low value of self.
There is nothing I can do to save
myself. And that is why I love the
gospel so much.
And that is why I want to share it with
others.
When we bound ourselves up with
checklists and busyiness
to justify ourselves, we're wearing the
mask of additions.
Last three, I'll go a little quickly.
Glad I'm not getting pulled off stage
yet. Point three, the the mask of
appearance. Verse five, but all their
works they do to be seen by men. They
make their felactories broad and they
enlarge uh the border of their garments,
small little leather boxes on their uh
foreheads and on their arms. Uh they
would put tassels on the borders of
their garments uh to remember
uh uh Numbers 15 says for you to look at
and remember all the commandments of the
Lord to do them. There's no issue with
the flactories. There's no issue with
the tassels on the garment. Jesus had
tassels on his garment. The issue is is
that they enlarged them to be noticed.
They enlarged them to look more
spiritual than other people. They wanted
to be seen.
They wanted to be noticed. They wanted
to appear more righteous than others. Uh
the Pharisees had the image
of being religious, but they were very
very far from God. Jesus says, "Woe to
you scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites.
You cleanse the outside of the cup and
dish. Inside they are full of extortion
and self-indulgence. First clean the
inside and the outside may be clean."
Also, he goes on to say later on in
Matthew 23 that you are like whitewashed
tombs, beautiful on the outside, but
inside full of dead men's bones and all
uncleanliness. And so my point here is
with all of this good works, obedience,
all of this, the Pharisees had no
transformation of their heart. They were
dirty on the inside, but they cared more
about what they looked like to everybody
else than they cared about themselves.
Nothing wrong with our actions being
noticed by others. Uh Jesus tells us in
Matthew 5, "Let your light shine uh
before men that they may see your good
works and glorify you."
No. So that they may glorify your father
in heaven.
Our good works are not to glorify
ourselves. Uh and there's nothing wrong
with being noticed. The hurricane stuff
we did was phenomenal. We got featured
in the chronicle. There's nothing sinful
about that. Now, if we had gone out
there and said, "Hey, let's go try and
do all this stuff." Uh, maybe the
chronicle will come down and write a
report on us. Different story. I think
we should be broadcasting more
of good works from the Christian church.
This one hits me hard because I struggle
with this. I want to be seen.
I want to be thanked.
I want to be acknowledged,
but it's not about me. It's about
glorifying God. It's about honoring
Jesus and his sacrifice. Read through
Matthew 6. We'll skip it for sake of
time. Uh talks about their good deeds
being seen by men. Uh praying like the
hypocrites in the synagogues on the
corners of the streets so that they may
be seen by men. fasting with a sad
countenance, disfiguring their faces so
that they may appear to be fasting. Can
I tell you, do you know how hard it was
to not tell people on Tuesday at work
that I was fasting?
It was so hard, but I didn't do it
because I had been studying on this and
I didn't want to be more like a
Pharisee.
I want you to hear what Jesus says of
them in Mark 7 6 and 7. He answered and
said to them, "Well, did Isaiah prophesy
of you hypocrites as it is written? The
people honor me with their lips, but
their heart is far from me, and in vain
they worship me, teaching as doctrine
the commandments again. And so I asked
myself, could God say this about me?
Well, you know, Chaz, he attends church,
but he worships me in vain.
He reads his Bible, but his heart's far
from me. He contributes weekly, even
gives his kids a couple dollars to put
in there. His
heart's far from me. He loves to sing.
Not well, but his heart's far far from
me. Everything that we should everything
we do should be done to honor God and to
glorify God. It's not about us. Uh, and
I'm going to I'm going to step step out,
put my neck a little bit further on the
line, and I'm going to say that we we
have some great ministries in this
church. And I apologize. I know we're
over time. Bible class teachers, I
apologize, but this is first and last
time, so I'm going to keep going.
We have so many great ministries here,
that do great work,
that serve out of love and want nothing
more than to glorify God.
But what I'm going to say is that when,
let me take that back. If these
ministries ever start to become more
about Creekide than they do about Jesus,
shut them down.
If they become more about the people
serving in the ministries than they do
about the people being served, shut them
down. I don't care if it's the impact
ministry we just rolled out last week. I
don't care, Gante, if you're here. Hope
Closet Fellowships, Logan, I don't care
if it's not about Jesus and it's not
about honoring and glorifying God the
Father, I don't want it.
But that's so hard inside because we
naturally want to be seen.
We naturally want to be recognized.
So if our worship, our service, our good
works is glorifying anyone other than
God, it's in vain. And we're wearing the
mask of appearance. Uh verses 6 through
7, the mask of admiration. They love the
best places at the feast, the best seats
in the synagogues, greetings in the
marketplaces, and to be called men, be
called by men rabbi, rabbi. Not only
they want to appear righteous, they
wanted to be honored for their
righteousness. They wanted to be admired
for how holy they were. They wanted the
best seats. They wanted to sit right
next to the host because that was the
most honorable place. In the synagogues,
I was very uncomfortable last week
sitting up here because in the
synagogues, they wanted
the most important seats. In the
synagogue, it would be elevated like
this. The pulpit would be towards the
back. The chairs would be closer to the
front. And the Pharisees wanted to sit
in them and look at everybody else.
Rex told me he wanted to make me sweat,
and he did.
They wanted titles.
Titles that come with respect. We're so
obsessed with titles. Uh dishwashers are
now underwater ceramic technicians.
Janitors are sanitary engineers. Servers
are culinary experience guides. Uh
receptionists are director of first
impressions. And we link these titles
with our identity. And we seek out these
titles to seem more important. and we
pursue positions for superiority.
And I'll skip this part, but I'm I I
promise you it's done in the church.
Verses 8-10. But you do not be called
rabbi, for one is your teacher, the
Christ, and you are all brethren. Do not
call anyone on earth your father, for
one is your father, he who is in heaven.
And do not be called teachers, for one
is your teacher, the Christ. There's no
hierarchy in the church. We're brothers
and sisters. We serve the same master.
We have one father in heaven and we have
one teacher who is Jesus. And when we
base our righteousness on what other
people think of us, we're wearing the
mask of admiration.
Lastly, the mask of arrogance. Uh, but
he who is greatest among you shall be
your servant, and whoever exalts him
himself will be humbled, and he who
humbles himself will be exalted. It is
clear through scripture that pride and
arrogance have no place in the life of a
Christian. God resists the proud. Pride
brings shame. Uh it brings destruction.
It brings punishment.
And the pride of the Pharisees caused
them to continue to elevate themselves.
Proverbs 15:33. Before honor is
humility. If we seek to be humble, we
will be honored one day.
If we seek to be honored, we will be
humbled one day.
At the right time, God will exalt us.
And what I what I got to in this in this
uh sermon and in this study,
I just told you a minute ago that I want
to be recognized. I want to be thanked.
I want to be honored. The more and more
that I study, I don't want to be honored
by men.
I don't want to be exalted by men.
I want to be exalted by God.
I want to be lifted up like our savior.
And the only way to achieve that is a
life of humility, a life of service, and
a life of esteeming ourselves as less
than. I will encourage you though, when
we work and we work and we work to get
rid of pride and we finally get rid of
it, it's time to start all over. Because
if we don't think we have pride,
you got a lot of pride.
A gentleman uh was a awarded a medal at
work for being the most humble. I had to
take it from him the next day because he
wore it to work.
Charles Spurgeon says that we must get
out of the way so that there is room for
God to be exalted. Christ gives us the
perfect example of humility.
Philippians 2 says that as a servant he
humbled himself
to the point of death and he has now
exalted at the right hand of the father.
That's the humility we have to have
church otherwise we're wearing the mask
of arrogance. I needed a reality check.
This study pricked my heart.
It showed me that my motives were
misplaced. It showed me that my heart
was misplaced. It showed me that I was
wearing masks. A mask of authority. I
placed my righteousness in my position
in service as a deacon. Mask of
additions. I I I placed my righteousness
in all the extra things I was doing. Uh
mask of appearance.
Placed my righteousness in how holy I
could seem on the outside.
The mask of admiration, where I placed
my righteousness on how well everyone
appreciated me and my teaching.
And the mask of arrogance, where I let
false humility
convince me that I was doing doing it on
my own. I got one quote and then I'm
going to pray. I know you guys want your
donuts.
Daryl Bach says,
"Pride preaches merit.
Humility
pleads for compassion.
Pride negotiates as an equal. Humility
approaches
in need.
Pride separates by putting down others.
Humility identifies with others and
recognizes that we all have the same
need. Pride destroys through its
alienating self-service. But humility
opens doors with its power to sympathize
with the struggle we share. Pride turns
up its nose.
But humility offers an open and lifted
up
hand.
Pray with me.
Holy Father, we humble ourselves now.
Father, you know our hearts. You know
how much that we love you.
You know how much that we want nothing
more than to glorify your name.
But Father, you also know that sometimes
our pride gets in the way. our desires
to be liked, our desires to be
important, our desires to be seen by
others.
And so, Father, we now come to you
humbly and we just ask that you will
help strip us of all those desires, that
you will break our hearts.
Not just break our hearts, but give us
the new heart
that you promise.
Father, help us to love you with all our
soul and all our strength and all our
mind
and then out of our understanding
of what you've done for us through
Jesus, help us to go out and love one
another. Help us to value the importance
of getting together here at church.
Help us to want to go out and do good
things for people that we don't know.
Help us to recognize that the lost of
this world
are in a no different place than where
we were
before you found us.
Father, we are so grateful for Jesus and
we're so grateful you for your grace and
your mercy and we would never want to
abuse that. And so, Father, by our
lives, please help us not to abuse that.
It's in Christ's name we pray. Amen.
Your heart might be like mine. It may
have drifted into self-reliance,
spiritual pride, and people pleasing. I
encourage you, God gives grace to the
humble. If you've never given your life
to Jesus, the work's done. Good works
save
the work of Christ.
We can help you put on Christ in baptism
this morning. If you have any need at
all, please come while we stand and
while we sing.
