So tonight, uh, we're, like I said, we
got just three questions, but I was
looking into questions. Sometimes
questions can be kind of tricky, and I
read this, and I thought this was cute,
so I'll share it with you. What if there
were no hypothetical questions?
Think on that one a little while. Uh,
another one came up. What did the math
book Why did the math book look so sad?
because he had too many problems.
This is good comedy. I'm telling you,
you could pay for this, but yeah. Well,
I guess you are. So,
don't you just hate it when you're over
at someone's house and they start asking
ridiculous questions like, "Who are
you?" and "Is that a gun?" No.
I thought that was cute. So, this one
was the best, though. I enjoyed this and
I hope you enjoy it. It's actually a
genuine This actually really happened.
This sounds like make believe, but this
really happened. Uh Harrison will enjoy
this one particularly, I think. So, it's
a genuine witness response. It was a
coroner
uh being questioned by an attorney in a
trial. This is the little section that
came out. question to the uh coroner of
the doctor. Did Did you check for a
pulse before you performed the autopsy?
No.
Next question. Did you check for blood
pressure?
No.
Did you check for breathing?
No. So then is it possible that the
patient was alive when you began the
autopsy?
No.
How can you be so sure, doctor? Because
his brain was sitting on my desk in a
jar.
But could the patient have still been
alive nevertheless?
It's possible he could have been alive
and practicing law somewhere.
I thought that was cute. Apparently
really happy. So, uh, I've got about 30
minutes to try to deal with this, or
maybe less. That Y'all wouldn't even be
upset if we got out a little early,
would you? Okay. Number one, 1 John 4:1.
I encourage you to turn to 1 John 4:1.
Let's do that real quick. 1 John 4:1. If
you have a Bible, that is so wonderful.
Those things, the batteries never go
flat. They They really don't. They just
keep working day after day after day. 1
John 4:1, "Beloved, do not believe every
spirit, but test the spirits whether
they are of God, because many false
prophets have gone out into the world."
Amen to that. It's true. So in this, the
question is, how do we test spirits? And
then give some examples. Well, in this
text, he actually, if you keep reading,
you find that there are two tests in the
text.
So the first one test is test for
confessing. What have you confessed?
Let's read verses 1 through3. Beloved,
do not believe every spirit, but test
the spirits whether they are of God
because many false prophets have gone
out in the world. Verse two, by this you
know the spirit of God. Every spirit
that confesses that Jesus Christ has
come in the flesh is of God. That's the
test. Verse three. And every spirit that
does not confess that Jesus Christ has
come in the flesh is not of God. And
this is the spirit of antichrist which
you have heard was coming and is now
already in the world. So that was a
doctrine that came up later innosticism.
But it was adopted apparently by
Mohammad because he believes that Jesus
did not literally die on the cross. And
part of the reason was for the Gnostic
influence of where he was at. If he
actually wrote that, which is a
question, by the way, there's questions
whether or not he even wrote. I mean,
because he couldn't write. Did any of
that actually come from him? The second
one that's in this text. So, uh, what
you confess indicates that was a test.
What would you confess? What was it?
Would you say at your confession or what
do you admit to believing? That's one
way. The next one is is what and who you
listen to. 1 John 4:es 4-6 says, "You
are of God, little children, and and"
and he calls you little children because
he was like 90 years old at the time.
"You are of God, little children, and
have overcome them because he who is in
you is greater than he who is in the
world." That refers to the Holy Spirit
being within us. Verse five, they are of
the world. There people outside who do
not believe. They are of the world.
Therefore, they speak as of the world
and the world hears them. So expect the
people of the world to listen to the
people of the world. Verse six, we are
of God. He who knows God hears us. He
who is not of God does not hear us. By
this we know the spirit of truth and the
spirit of error. Somebody that will not
listen to what we are pointing out in
here.
There it is. There's a test. Just won't
listen. That's a test. All right. there.
I'm going to give you really though
quick about seven of these. Okay, let me
give you about seven of these. Uh I
think I got them. Yeah, there they are.
Uh number one, a test for capability, I
think is the best way to describe this.
So there's a lot of different kind of
tests that are mentioned in the
scriptures. 1 Timothy 3:10, but let
these also first be tested. Uh then let
them serve as deacons, being found
blameless. Though it's appropriate to
test a deacon or a man considered being
the deacon rather and to see if he will
do what you ask him to do and will he
complete the job. There's another test.
There's a way to test for lying
apparently. Revelation 2:2 I know your
works, your labors, your patience, and
that you cannot bear those who are evil.
And you have tested those who say they
are apostles and are not and have found
them liars. So you found something in
what they were saying that wasn't true.
So you can do that by just asking
questions. You can test for obedience. 2
Corinthians 2. So these are the examples
that they also wanted, not just what was
in the text. You can test for obedience.
2 Corinthians 2:9. For to this end I
also wrote that I might put you to the
test whether you are obedient in all
things. What he was referring to is
would they do what he just said? And so
if an elder or someone in the church,
you know, ask you to do something and
you won't do anything, uh, it's probably
a good test, a test for faith, but
particularly obedience to the Lord. Test
for faith. 2 Corinthians 13:5, examine
yourselves as to whether you are in the
faith. Test yourselves. Do you not know
yourselves that Jesus Christ is in you?
Unless indeed you are disqualified. So
you can test yourself for whether or not
you believe in Jesus or not. If you
can't honestly say that you believe in
Jesus, all right, you failed the test.
There's a test for all kinds of things,
but particularly good things. 1
Thessalonians 5:21, test all things.
Hold fast to what is good. So see if
it's a good thing. If it's a good thing,
uh, put it to the test. Uh, does good
come from it? And then test for fruit.
Uh, Matthew 7 15-20. Beware of false
prophets who come to you in sheep's
clothing. That means they act like
they're a shepherd of the sheep or a
pastor, but inwardly they are raving
wolves. They're only about feeding
themselves. Verse 16, you will know them
by their fruits. Do men gather grapes
from thorn bushes or figs from thistles.
Prickly, probably a bad sign. Verse 17,
even so every good tree bears good
fruit, but a bad tree bears bad fruit.
Verse 18, a good tree cannot bear bad
fruit, nor can a bad tree bear good
fruit. That's a big principle right
there. Verse 19, every tree that does
not bear good fruit is cut down and
thrown in the fire. Verse 20, therefore
by their fruit you will know them. So
one of the major tests is whether or not
the fruit of a person what what after
they do things does good come from it or
bad come from it. And then test for
sincerity. Jeremiah 17:10 says, "I the
Lord search the heart. I test the mind
even to give every man according to his
ways, according to the fruit of his
doings." And Jeremiah 20 and verse 12,
so not only does your heart get tested,
verse 12 says, "But oh Lord of hosts,
you who test the righteous and see the
mind and heart, uh, let me see your
vengeance on them, for I have pleaded my
cause before them." So you can test
someone's heart, you can test someone's
mind. Do they really believe this way?
Do they really think that way? Is it
really in their heart? So, there's a lot
of ways to test. Those were some
examples that was suggested by the
question. So, can you test? Yes, it's in
the text. And uh in the text, it's by
what they listen to. Are they willing to
listen to the truth? And the other one
is, do they confess Jesus appropriately?
All right. Next question is, how can a
new Christian notice when they are
turning from God? So, I'm not sure that
this going to help particularly new
Christians, but at least it is
guidelines, I would say, for anybody. If
a man can test others, if I which we
just looked at, right? Right. That's
what we just did. If a man can test
others, then one can ask his brother who
also can test. Right. So, you can test
me, I can test you, right? If that's
true, then I can ask my brother to test
me. In John 6 and verse 6, this he said
to test him, for he knew what he he
would do. This he's talking about what
he did with Philillip when he was
talking about feeding all that a
multitude. So you can put somebody's
faith to the test just by little
questions. Yeah, you can do that. And
you can do that with me. I can do it
with you. So yes, you can ask somebody
else to kind of watch you, be your
mentor, keep an eye on you. That's what
1 John 4:1 implies as well. Do not
believe every spirit, but test the
spirits whether of God. You can ask, you
can watch, and you can ask somebody to
do that for you. If you're a little
concerned that you're wavering,
say, "Could you keep an eye on me?"
Nothing wrong with that. Matthew 7:13,
you will know them. So, take a look at
me. Kind of keep an eye on me. So, you
could ask a preacher, you could ask your
Bible class teacher, you could ask an
elder, you could ask any brother or
sister. Um, kind of keep your eye on me.
I I'm struggling.
It's a good thing to do. So if that's
possible, if a man can examine someone
else then and he can examine his own
spirit, then you should be able to
notice yourself what's happening to you
because that's what we just read a
moment ago. First Corinthians 11:28, let
a man examine himself. You can take a
look at yourself. You know whether or
not you've been praying lately. You know
whether or not you've been reading your
Bible lately. You know whether or not
you've been coming to church regularly.
You know these things. and you know
whether or not you're changing or if
you're in regression. You know it. You
may not want to admit it, but you know
it. And one of the best signs uh if
you're a new Christian is that you're in
regression. You're backsliding is the
old term and you know it. You know your
sin that you used to do is starting to
happen again. You're in regression. 2
Corinthians 13:5, "Examine yourselves as
to whether you're in the faith. test
yourselves. Do you not know yourselves
that Jesus Christ is in you unless uh
indeed you are disqualified? In other
words, you're you've so wandered away
that there's not much sign that you're a
Christian. So that's that's a real thing
you can do. So if a man can examine
himself, then he can ask himself, am I
turning? But you got to be honest, and
that's the hard part of that. So ask
yourself spiritual hard questions.
Here's some hard questions you might ask
yourself about your own sincerity.
Because that's what we're talking about,
right? If if you're struggling with
knowing whether or not you're
backsliding,
then your question isn't whether or not
you're backsliding. The question then
becomes, am I being sincere and truthful
with myself? So, a couple of questions
you might ask. Am I forgetting? Second
Peter 3:5, they willfully forget the
word of God. So you can choose to
willfully forget it by not reading it,
by not quoting it anymore,
or just choosing not to talk about Bible
things anymore. I will say this, this is
this has been a disturbing trend I've
seen uh in ministry.
A lot of times people don't want to have
spiritual conversations.
It's kind of bothersome to me. Do do
y'all know what I'm talking about?
I mean, talk about anything in the world
but the Bible. Talk about anything in
the world but spiritual conversations
about spiritual conditions of people. To
me, the most important thing is either
spiritual conversations or biblical
conversations or growing in that. You
want to talk to me anytime about that,
that's great. But what I find that we
mainly like talking about is sports.
Since Alabama lost yesterday, I'm going
to leave that alone. All right. So,
I'm going to willfully be ignorant of
that. Another thing is you can ask
yourself, am I being loving? Second
Thessalonians 2:10 says, "They did not
receive the love of the truth."
It's not just, "Am I being loving
towards you?" Am I loving this? Do I
love it or am I bored by it? Am I bored
by the Bible? Am I tired of it? Am I
tired of hearing preaching? It's like
Paul said, you know, don't hate
prophecy. Don't don't dislike it. Don't
spend your eye rejecting prophecy. He
means don't just decide you don't want
to hear preaching anymore or teaching.
Bad sign. If you get where you don't
want to go to Bible class anymore or you
don't want to hear a sermon anymore,
bad sign. Really bad sign.
Am I turning? There's a question to ask
yourself, which is what we're really
asking, right? Just ask yourself, am I
turning? Second Timothy 4:4, they will
turn their ears away from the truth. So,
yeah, you know, when you're turning, it
might not feel apparent initially, but
if you just take a moment and take a
really good look and look at what you're
doing, you'll know I'm starting to have
a problem and I need to work on it. All
right, ask that question. I might not
give you the answer you exactly wanted,
but hopefully it's at least in the
ballpark. U hopefully. Well, I didn't
flip through these. That's what it is.
All right, next question. Sorry, didn't
flip through those. So, when faith, this
is the last question. When faith grows
quiet,
is it God's absence or his invitation?
That's a different question. Thought
that was a really good question. Not
sure I'm going to do good good justice
to this, but I think that's a really
good question. Don't you? I think that
that gave some real thought to that. So,
I'm going to go walk through maybe I'll
stay with these things up here. Some
ways that God may be working even when
it seems to me that he is missing from
my life. There are ways that you could
identify that he's working and what
might be going on. And so, you need to
consider these. He may be encouraging
our study. Psalm 119:105, your word is a
lamp to my feet and a light to my path.
It may be that I don't know what God's
doing or what's going on in my life and
why it's the way it is. Maybe that would
be something instead of asking me or
someone else, just get your Bible out
and start looking for any scripture that
might give you some insight onto that
topic.
It's a good idea. Um, and God may be
inviting our hunger for him. Maybe it's
going quiet and you you don't feel or
don't see maybe God in your life the way
you once did. Maybe he's trying to
convince you to seek him a little more.
Jeremiah 29:13, "You will seek me and
find me when you search for me with all
your heart. You will know you found him
when you search for him with your whole
heart." So maybe God's proddding you to
search a little harder
or he may be challenging our vision.
Maybe it's not that he's gone anywhere.
Maybe it's we are getting blind to what
God's doing. John 3:3 says unless one is
born again, he cannot see the kingdom.
So I think you know combine it with what
Peter says in first 2 Peter 1 vers9
there can be a blindness that comes on
us that isn't physical blindness. We can
get to the point where we don't actually
see things cuz we quit looking.
If you don't look for things, it's funny
how you don't see them and you start
thinking you've got to see it in a
certain way and that may not be the way
God's working at all. John 5:1 17 Jesus
said this, "My father has been working."
So God's all the time working. God's
just working. And whether we see it or
not didn't mean God's not working. And
that's our tendency is maybe sometimes
our visions a little challenged. Another
one is he may be stretching our faith.
Hebrews 11:6, he who comes to God must
believe that he is and that he is a
rewarder of those who casually look for
him. No, who diligently seek him. So
this idea that God should be apparent
all the time and you don't have to dig
and look and feel that God's pres see
God's pres see God working in your life
is against the rule of thumb. The rule
of thumb is you need to be a person
that's really looking for him all the
time. And if you're really seeking him
all the time, you might begin to notice
him in your word, notice him in your
prayers, notice him in your life, notice
him in the people around you, notice him
at church, the people talking to you,
maybe trying to communicate to you
something that you need to know. So
there's a lot of different ways. The
second quest part of this question is,
what should we do when God feels
distant? So you maybe that's where you
are right now. Maybe you feel like God's
distant or something like that. What
should you do?
Nothing new.
Repeat.
You know, remember and repeat. Continue
praying. Luke 18:1, men always ought to
pray and not lose heart.
So if you're losing heart that you don't
think God's with you, maybe instead of
stopping praying, you ought to pray a
little harder,
maybe go for a fast even.
Continue reading your Bible and trying
to believe what it says. Isaiah 41:10,
"Fear not, for I am with you." Is God
with you or not? He says it, right? Is
God with you? Does he say it? He says
it. Fear not. I am with you. Be not
dismayed. Don't get all upset. For I am
your God. I will strengthen you. Yes, I
will help you. I will uphold you with my
righteous right hand. So, that's a
promise from God. Read his promises.
Read what he says. He says he's not
going to leave you. Why do you think he
left you? Is it God's problem or is it
something you're not believing? Right?
So continue reading his word. Another
one is continue worshiping. One of the
worst things we can do is get down and
then we quit worshiping God. I remember
in college there went through a time
where I almost decided to stop.
I almost
it happened. It was a rough time
happening and I just almost said
but that doesn't work. Job 1 vers20.
Then Job arose, tore his robes, and
shaved his head.
Looked weird, I bet.
But then he fell to the ground and
worshiped. He lost everything except his
health at that point. And what did he
do? Turned away from God? No, he
worshiped God. That's what he did. And
then finally, continue trusting him. Job
13:15, Job said, "Though he slay me, yet
will I trust him." Will you trust him on
the day you die? Amen. That's the day
you need to really be powerful in your
prayer. Amen. Because one day we are
going to die. Every last one of us in
here, unless the Lord returns are going
to die. We're going to die. So, we need
to be in the middle of our trusting all
the time, but especially that day. Amen.
So, the next part of this question comes
up.
Did I get it? Yeah. Uh how Jesus dealt
with his own father's silence to his own
request to remove the cup.
Now just think about that. This is the
son of God.
He goes out that night.
Stones throw away from the other three.
Nobody's listening.
And prays his heart out.
Sweating.
Drops the blood.
Gets up from that.
Goes gets beat that night. Mock trials.
Beaten.
And then he's flogged. Oh, you you
thought I was talking about the flogged.
No, he gets beat up. He gets marked with
posts, poles stuck in his side. He gets
slapped,
right? He gets beat up that night. Then
he goes in the morning and he's flogged.
He's scourged.
But then he's nailed to a cross. And he
just prayed, "Lord, let this cup pass
from me." Right?
That didn't happen.
So there he is on the cross.
Matthew 27:46 he says, "And about the
9th hour, Jesus cried out with a loud
voice, Eli, Eli, lamai."
That is, "My God, my God, why have you
forsaken me?"
And you could take that as he's given up
on God,
but that wasn't really what was
happening. I don't believe I believe
that's an incipit.
That's an old term. An incipit is when
you quote the first line of anything, an
old
thing they did. They used to not have
chapters and verses, right? That was an
invention. When you didn't have chapters
and verses, how did you te make
reference to an a section of a poem or a
section of a book or a section of the
Bible? How did you do it? You gave them
an incipit. An incipid is a short quote
that starts off the text. This is the
first line of the text of Psalm 22. What
is Psalm 22 about?
The Messiah.
What is he saying? Go read what it says
about me. I haven't stopped believing.
I'm the son of God. I'm the Messiah that
is talking about it. Feels terrible
where I'm at right now. This is awful,
but it's true. So, it's an incipid.
Instead of his losing the faith, he's
actually pointing to the prophecy. And
that's why we have uh later when he's
risen from the dead, Luke 24:44, these
are the words which I spoke to you while
I was still with you that all things
must be fulfilled which were spoken in
the law of Moses and the prophets and
the Psalms. There it is. So he's quoting
the Psalms and he's making reference to
it here. So like Jesus at our lowest
points when we hit rock bottom and we
just don't know what we're going to do
and we're asking Lord take this cup away
from us cuz I guarantee you you will
pray that prayer. If you haven't already
prayed it, you will pray it. Lord take
this away from me. I don't think I can
do this. I don't think I can face this.
If you haven't prayed that prayer, you
haven't been through much. The rest of
us have prayed it probably many times.
Lord, I don't want to. I can't handle
this. I don't know if I can go through
this. I don't know if I can face this
and maintain my faith. And you will feel
that and probably pray something to that
effect. But what we should do is look at
Jesus at the top of his voice. He's
shouting this out. At the very moment he
feels the lowest. He points to the thing
that is true about him. And we ought to
point at our lowest, to the truth about
us. I'm a believer. I'm a child of God.
I'm fixing to pass out of this world.
I'm laying here on this hospital bed and
I'm about to go. You need to know about
Jesus. You need to know about Jes.
That's what we ought to be doing. That's
what we ought to be doing. Can we do
that? Because if we do that, we actually
make ourselves stronger for the moment.
2 Corinthians 12:10. Therefore, I take
pleasure in infirmities, in reproaches,
in needs, in persecutions, in distresses
for Christ's sake. For when I am weak,
then I am Say it with me, brethren. Then
I am strong. Yes. So, you already know
that passage sounds like so I really
didn't need to preach that. So, many
questions are asked,
but maybe we're asking the wrong
questions.
Pilate apparently like me
uh thought he was in control often. You
know, I actually think I'm in control of
my life. Do you ever think that I'm in
control and I'm making the decisions
about my life? What a foolish thing to
think. You're not.
Not as much as you think.
Decide not to breathe anymore the rest
of the day.
Decide not to eat anything for the rest
of the year.
decide not to enjoy this lesson.
Thought I'd give that a shot. 
So, so Pilate, like me, was thinking
that he was in control. And I think
maybe was asking the wrong question. But
here it is. Pilate said to them, "What
then shall I do with Jesus who's called
the Christ?"
What shall I do with Jesus? There's not
the question. What's Jesus going to do
with you, Pilate?
There's the question. The question is
not, "What am I going to do with church?
What am I going to do with this church?
What am I going to do with elders? What
am I going to do with the deacons? What
am I going to do with this ministry?
What am I going to do with No, the
question is, what God going to do with
you?" There's the question. Albert
Benjamin Simpson lived from 1843 to
1919. He's a Canadian preacher, a
theologian, an author. And uh in 1897,
he wrote these words.
What will you do with Jesus?
Jesus is standing in Pilot's hall,
friendless, forsaken, betrayed by all.
Hearken. What meanth the sudden call?
What will you do with Jesus?
What will you do with Jesus? Neutral you
cannot be. Someday your heart will be
asking, "What will he do with me?"
Jesus is standing on trial still.
You can be false to him if you will. You
can be faithful through good or ill.
What will we do with Jesus? What will we
do with Jesus?
Neutral, you cannot be. Someday your
heart will be asking, "What will he do
with me? Will you evade him as Pilate
tried or you will choose him where the
air be tied? Vainly you struggle from
him to hide. What will you do with
Jesus? But what will you do with Jesus?
Neutral you cannot be. But someday your
heart will be asking what will he do
with me? You'll be standing in the group
with the rest of us. Will you like Peter
your Lord deny or will you scorn him
from his foes to fly daring for Jesus to
live or die? What will you do with
Jesus? What will you do with Jesus?
Neutral you cannot be. Someday your
heart will be asking what will he do
with me? Finally, Jesus I give thee my
heart today. Jesus I follow thee all the
way gladly obeying thee. Will you say
this will I do with Jesus? Because what
will you do with Jesus?
Neutral you cannot be. Someday your
heart will be asking what will he do
with me? What will you do with Jesus?
What will he do with me? There's the
question to ask ourself. Maybe the
question is to us individually and we
just need to make a decision. It's not
about answering a question with some
intellectual or biblical answer. It's
are you willing to let him be the Lord
of your life? If you are, we'll help you
every way we can this very night and
won't let you get away from here. You
just come forward, let us know, or meet
us afterward, talk to one of the elders.
We want to help you any way we can. If
you need to come, come while we stand
and while we sing.
