So, here's I'm going to explain and I'm
going to have the young men get up and
begin doing this. Um,
we seek your nominations, not ours. We
seek your nominations of those you've
talked to hopefully and prayed for by
name potentially as an elder who you
believe to be qualified because what
you've seen, who has told you they are
willing to serve hopefully. And all
nominations must be made today. That is
now. We're fixing to do that. These
papers will be taken up during the
invitation song. Um they're not going to
be any late nominations, so don't come
running up tonight. They're not going to
be accepted. We're going to get this
done today. Uh no one wishing to
nominate later will be accepted. If you
do not put your name down where it has a
place to print your name and we cannot
recognize you as a baptized believer
here, your piece of paper will be
discarded. So, it is up to you to make
sure you do this correctly. No names
that are illeible or unprinted or
unidentifiable.
Well, their nominees will not be
accepted. No so-called members that
we've never heard of before in our life
and never seen any before or unknown
will be accepted. We will accept all
baptized believers nominations. So if
you're a baptized believer today, your
nomination will be accepted. So I need
the men, if you will, begin to stand up
and kind of follow what you do when
you're passing out the plates and make
sure that everybody gets a sheet right
now and a pen if they need it. And while
they're doing that, uh, I'll be talking
to you. So, please make sure that you
understand. Every baptized believer gets
a sheet and gets a pen,
okay? If you need a pen. So, if you
don't want to do this, that's fine. No
one will be offended. Now, after you get
through doing it, now I expect you to do
it probably during uh my preaching.
That's fine to be distracted. That's not
unusual, by the way. So, if you're
getting distracted, that's fine. And
take your time, fill that out. Try to
make it as legible as you can so we can
read their names and read your name so
we know this is real. When you do get
through though, we we're going to ask
you to fold it closed and keep it with
you and we'll pick them up at the close
of this sermon, which hopefully isn't
too long. So that's the plan as it
stands. I'm going to start talking now.
Benjamin Hooks, some of you may know him
as a American civil rights leader. Uh he
was a minister, he was an attorney, and
he was the director of the NAACP
from 1977 to 1992.
This was his saying, and I think it's a
great saying. If you think you're
leading and you turn around to see no
one following,
then you're just taking a walk. So, it's
important that the congregation be
behind these people. That is why we want
to know your suggested
uh names and nominations.
You know, shepherds, which is what we
call elders, shepherds made great
leaders in the scriptures. And so, I I
need you to understand that all of the
really great leaders we know in
scriptures were shepherds. That is,
Joseph was a shepherd and he became a
great leader. Moses was a shepherd and
he became a great leader. David was a
shepherd and he became a great leader.
So that's just the standard. So when we
talk about leadership and we align it
with shephering, it makes full sense
hopefully to us all. We need to
understand why we
are nominating and affirming and
ordaining more elders. For one reason,
our elders all have medical issues.
And for another reason, they are not
getting any younger. Age creeps up on us
all. I look in the mirror every day.
It's creeping up on me. So, we have five
elders, but they could always use more
help. And we certainly could be able to
shepherd you, maybe with a little
greater care. Moses chose judges men
like shepherds when he got overwhelmed
with the amount of work he was doing
because he was trying to take care of
everybody and everything. And uh so he
ended up getting more guys helping him.
So we're trying to be as biblical as we
can be. This lesson is designed to help
you understand that we believe this is a
biblical process and this is a
congregational process. So, we're going
to look at five examples this morning
quickly. And so, once you get through
this, I think you might have a greater
appreciation of what we're doing this
morning when we get through because
you're going to see some repetition in
scriptures. So, I don't believe this is
something unusual.
What we're doing today is the gold
standard.
Number one, making qualified nominations
by voting and praying. Yes, that
occurred in Acts chapter 1 verses 15-
26. I want to take you through it
quickly. It says, "And in those days,
Peter stood up in the midst of the
disciples altogether. The number of the
and names was about 120. And those 120
are fixing to do something and said,
"Men and brethren, the scripture had to
be fulfilled which the Holy Spirit spoke
before by the mouth of David concerning
Judas, who became a guide to those who
arrested Jesus." Therefore, of these
men, that is the people present at that
meeting, who have accompanied us all the
time that the Lord Jesus went in and out
among us, beginning from the baptism of
John to that day when he was taken up
from us. One of these must become a
witness with us of his resurrection. And
they that is the antecedent. The they is
the 120. And they proposed to. How did
120 proposed to? You'll see in a moment.
It's in the text. Joseph called Barabus
who was surnamed Justice and Matias. And
they, that is the 120 and the apostles,
they prayed and said, this is the reason
we've encouraged you to pray about this.
You, oh Lord, who know the hearts of
all, show which of these two you have
chosen to take part in this ministry and
apostilhip from which Judas by
transgression fell that he might go to
his own place. Paul was not the
replacement for Judas. Matias was the
replacement for Judas by this text.
Verse 26, and they cast their lots, and
the lot fell on Matias. Now there could
be discrepancy but it seems that they
seems to be the apostles in this text.
At any rate it says and he was numbered.
We'll come back to that word which I
have never noticed before this study.
They were numbered with the 11 apostles.
Interesting word there in the Greek. And
they drew lots for them. Now we've
always imagined the lots were just
random that it was a random occurrence
because that was what we thought
lotgiving was. This text may not be
about that. That may not be what they're
saying here. And they drew lots for
them. And the lot fell to Matias and he
was added. That's that interesting word
again. And he was added to the 11
apostles. The interesting word here that
you need to understand after you
understand that the 120 selected two
men. How did they do that? Likely by
some form of a vote. We don't know. But
we do know that the 120 selected the two
men to put before them. And then we know
that the apostles appear to be a part of
the lot. The interesting word in the
word used for he was added or he was
numbered is soon kapa say fleas on my
that's a hard word to say it's a long
word it's a big barrel word and it
literally means to vote one a place
among literally it suggested by the way
whatever they did here however they did
it in fact it implies the use of rocks
So it implies the use of rocks and it
implies some form of a vote. Now how
that occurred I do not know be honest
with you. But what I do know is voting
and praying was a part of this process
and the whole group and then the 12. So
we're looking at that and think about
that what we're doing. So now we've got
the congregation and then we've got the
elders. You understand? So that's
literally very similar to what we're
doing. The second lesson I want you to
see is making qualified nominations by
selecting and praying. And we pick up in
Acts chapter 6. Now, this is not about
elders in either of these texts. It's
just about process and how the early
church engaged in process that was
acceptable to the whole congregation. In
acts 6:es 1-6 it says now in those days
when the number of disciples was
multiplied so it's a multitude at this
point there arose a complaint among the
u Hebrews by the hellist because their
widows were neglected in the daily
distribution this is of food taking care
of widows. Verse two then the twel
summoned the multitude of the disciples
and said it is not desirable that we
should leave the word of god and serve
tables. Verse three, therefore,
brethren, talking to the multitude, seek
out from among you, seven men, there was
a multitude, so they just needed seven
men of good reputation, full of the Holy
Spirit and wisdom, whom we may appoint
over this business. Again, you see the
group and then the the smaller group
making the decision. Verse four, but we
will give ourselves continually to
prayer, again, prayer and to the
ministry of the word. Verse 5. And this
saying, please the whole multitude. So
the whole multitude is involved in this.
And they chose. How did they choose?
It's not spelled out, but they selected.
We know that's literally the word that
used here. They selected Steven, a man
full of faith in the Holy Spirit, and
Philip Procurus, Neander, Timman, and
Parmmanius. Perminus, and Nicholas, a
procelite from Antioch. Verse six, whom
they sat before, that is the multitude
set before the apostles and when they
had prayed, they laid their hands on
them. We assume they there's probably
the anticed the apostles there and so
they prayed and they laid their hands on
them as an appointment. Verse three,
therefore brethren select, this is verse
three all over again new American
standard. Brethren, select. So that word
choose is select. From among you seven
men of good reputation, full of the
spirit and wisdom whom we may appoint in
charge of this task. Again, it is a
process where you got the larger group,
smaller group making the decision. So
literally selecting and praying though
was a part of both of those. Third
example I want you to see in scripture
is making qualified nominations by
voting and praying. So again, the word
voting comes in. It's in Acts 14:es
20-23. Verse 20 says, "However, when the
disciples gathered around him, he rose
up and went in the city and the next day
he that is Paul departed with Barnabas
to Derby." So this is Paul and Barnabas.
It's important for me to bring that out
because that's the antecedent of they
you're going to see in a minute. Verse
21. And when they had preached the
gospel, that is Paul and Barnabas and
whoever else might have accompanied
them. When they had preached the gospel
to the city and made many disciples,
they not the disciples, they being the
anticedant is Paul and Barnabas, they
returned to Lististra, Iconium and
Antioch. Verse 22, strengthening the
souls of the disciples exhorting them
that is the disciples to continue in the
faith and saying we must through uh
through many tribulations enter the
kingdom of God. So when they had
appointed elders in every church. So we
assume the antecedent therefore is the
apost the apostles or Paul and Barnabas.
So when they had appointed elders in
every church and prayed with fasting
they commended them to the Lord in whom
they had believed. The word appointed
here uh cher toenail it basically means
to again uh to vote by stretching out
the hand to appoint. So there was a
voting in this process. Now if it's Paul
and Barnabas, it seems a little funny
that two men needed to vote like okay I
mean you know what I mean is stretching
out the hand. So this may include the
congregation. Well where would that be
possible? I don't know exactly but it
may be because of the statement in every
church or in every assembly. So somehow
it may have engaged the assembly because
there ended up being a vote there. So
this is Paul and Barnabas appointing
them. So it appears to me that there's
still that idea of getting the every
assembly involved and then the apostles
putting them in place. So again, the
larger group than the smaller group. So
in every assembly. Now the fourth one
that I want you to see is in Acts
15:12-35.
This is an interesting one. It's not
about again this is not about elders.
The only passage so far about elders is
the one we just looked at. That is the
only one. the one I just showed you.
That's the only time we have an example
like that. But there was some kind of
voting involved and a larger and a
smaller group. Then making qualified
nominations by selecting and praying in
Acts 15:es 12-35. I won't read all that.
I'm going to get you just down to a
couple of the verses. I'm going to pick
up verse 12. Then all the multitude kept
silent and listen. So, this is about
when there was circumcision being
required by some of the Jews that have
been converted, trying to get all the
Gentiles to be circumcised. And there's
a whole discussion of that. I don't want
to get into that. But verse 22, it says,
"Then it pleased the apostles and elders
with the whole church." So, apostles,
oh, well, I guess they just made all the
decisions. No, apparently not. And
elders, well, I guess they made all
decisions. Apparently not. It says it
pleased the apostles and elders with the
whole church. So literally all of these
were involved in what's fixing to happen
here. Uh please the apostles elders with
the whole church to send chosen that
word is selected and chosen men of their
own company. Now some process of
selecting just happened right there for
them to get down to two men because it's
a multitude of people right and these
are leading men. And it says, "So there
were people that were wellknown within
the congregation to send chosen men of
their own company to Antioch with Paul
and Barnabas, namely Judas, who was also
named Barcabas and Silas, leading men
among the brethren." Leading men. So
they are obviously outfront people that
were wellknown. Somehow that was
selected not just by the apostles, not
just by the elders, but also by the
whole congregation. It says verse 25,
"It seemed good to us being assembled
with one accord, that is with the
multitude, to send chosen men." This is
the letter they sent to Antioch. Chosen
men are selected men uh to you with our
beloved Barnabas and Paul. Verse 28, for
it seemed good to the Holy Spirit and to
us. Now, the implication of that
statement is that they had been praying
about this because they felt led by the
Holy Spirit. It seemed good to the Holy
Spirit and to us to lay upon you no
greater burden than the necessary
things. So the word chosen here is
literally the word select. And again it
looks like that they got involved with
not just uh the apostles and not just
the elders but the apostles, the elders
and the multitude somehow selected these
men and they prayed about it before they
did it. Now the last example I want to
give you is again very similar. These
fill in the blanks are very similar. It
says making qualified nominations by
voting and proving them. So that's a
little different, but it's the same word
in 2 Corinthians chapter 8 19-22. This
is what it says. But thanks be to God
who puts the same earnest care for you
in the heart of Titus. Now what Paul's
trying to get them ready for is they're
going to send a lot of help because of
famine situation into Jerusalem. And
they're taking these things by the hands
of various members of the church. And so
he wants them to be confident this money
is going to be handled appropriately.
Which by the way, it's important for you
to recognize that when we handle money
here, there's multiple eyes on the money
here. And then there's multiple eyes on
it regularly. And everything is done by
not one eye. Not one eye, many eyes look
at what's going on. Verse 17, for he not
only accepted the exhortation, but being
more diligent, he went to you of his own
accord. That is talking about Titus
being a good guy you could trust who was
going to be a part of this verse 18. And
we have sent with him the brother whose
praise is in the gospel throughout all
the churches. Now what's interesting
here is we don't know who this guy is.
He's not named in the text but
apparently all the congregations at
least in the region that he would they
would have known knew who this man was
and knew it without saying anything.
That's how wellknown he was. Verse 19.
And not only that, but who was also
chosen by the churches. That's verse 19.
You might keep your finger there because
that's the word we're going to come back
to. That is literally the same word
that's in Acts 14:23. And is exactly the
same word. Come back to it. And who was
also chosen by the churches, not by a
church, not by a group, but by multiple
churches. Chose this individual to do
this. How did they do that? to travel
with us with the gift which is
administered to us, I mean by us uh to
the glory of the Lord himself and to
show your ready mind. Verse 20, avoiding
this that anyone should blame us in the
lavish gift which is administered by us.
Don't want anybody questioning whether
or not we were, you know, skimming off
the top. Verse 21, proving honorable
things. It's important to prove what you
do. Proving honorable things, not only
in the sight of the Lord. Yes, it's
great that the Lord knows we're doing
things right, but it's also important
that you know that we're doing things
right. Right. So, you do things open and
above board and proving not only in the
sight of the Lord, but also in the sight
of men. So, that's why we do things the
way we're doing them. Verse 22, and we
have sent with them our brother whom we
have often proved. So, that's another
thing you always want to do with
somebody before you put them in a
position, especially handling money or
anything important. You need to prove
them diligent in many things, but now
much more diligent because the great
confidence which we have in you. If
anyone inquires about Titus, because
he's going along with this, if anybody
inquires about Titus, he is my partner
and fellow worker concerning you. Or if
our brother uh or if our brethren are
inquired about, they are messengers of
the churches. So he's saying if you
question any of these people going along
with it, especially that one that
everybody knows, they are messengers of
the churches and the glory of Christ.
Therefore, show to them and before the
churches the proof, all the
congregations, the assemblies, the proof
of your love and of our boasting on your
behalf. Now, the New American Standard
in verse 19 translates it this way,
appointed by the churches. But the Greek
word there again as I said before to
stretch is the fundamental basic meaning
of the word. But in this text the word
means to vote by stretching out by hand
to a point. So somehow they use their
hands to suggest who they wanted the
same word. So in the side of men is
important but that comes through the
entire congregation in that text. So
again, what you have is there is the
sense of larger groups but then being
ministered by a smaller group. So here's
the lesson as we've seen it. This is
what we see as the standard model in the
New Testament. It's really hard to argue
with this model. It's repeated over and
over again when anybody's put into a
position. There is a voting process in
almost every one of these situations, if
not every situation. There is a praying
model in every situation
and then there is a selecting and then
there's a praying then there's a voting
and then there's a praying and then
there's a selecting and then there's
praying and then there's voting and
there's proving. So all of that seems to
be a part of the process that we see
anytime anybody's given a position that
was important to the congregation.
That's something to think about. Now you
may think what in the world is this
about?
It's about you need to know that what
we're doing is good here. But it's also
about this. You know what folks? We try
to do Bible things in Bible ways. And
you should do the same.
Everything we do should be guided by the
scriptures. We are about restoring New
Testament Christianity today. We're not
about doing what we think we want to do
today. Are we going to come up with
something? No. We need to do things
Bible ways. Amen. We need to be a New
Testament church trying the best we know
how to do it as closely as what it
appears they did it. And that's what
we're trying to do today, but we need to
do that every day. So last night,
hopefully you were among the crowd that
fasted and prayed. That may be the
reason you're a little grumpy right now,
skipped supper, and then came in here
and you haven't eaten. Now, when we get
through vetting, the elders get through
vetting these men, which is their
appointed place in this process. Some
group needs to do that. We will again
encourage you to fast the night before
and we will pray again that day. And
then when we actually get to the
ordination Sunday in September, Lord
willing, Lord allows, then the night
before again, we're going to encourage
you to fast and we will pray about it.
Why do it that way? because that's what
they did.
Franklin Roosevelt
had to work hard to
persuade
Harry Truman to be his running mate in
1944.
In that election, Truman had been a
farmer and he wanted nothing more than
to be a senator.
And the incumbent vice president was
Henry Wallace. At that time he had, for
whatever reason, I'm not going to get
into that, had become very unpopular
with the Democratic leadership at that
time. So Truman approached
um
this whole thing in a kind of a
reluctancy. He did not want to become
his running mate.
There might be men here who don't want
to become an elder because they don't
want the responsibility.
I understand that.
I think that's the wrong thing to think,
but I understand it.
I think you're responsible whether you
take it or not. If you're qualified to
some degree, you're responsible.
But that's my thinking.
So Truman approached it. April the 12th,
1945 though, after he became the vice
president, he was summoned to the White
House. He was shown into the room where
Eleanor Roosevelt was sitting by
herself.
And she told him that President
Roosevelt had died.
He was in stunned silence. So Truman
just stood there.
Finally, Truman asks Miss Roosevelt, "Is
there anything I can do for you?"
And Miss Roosevelt said this. I love
what she said here. "Is there anything
we can do for you?
For you're the one in trouble now.
It's serious. What we're doing is
serious business." And so, shephering,
eldering is serious business. I hope
you've approached this seriously. If
you've filled out your paper already, I
need you to fold it in half. We're about
to take it up. I need the men to come
forward and get their uh buckets and get
ready. Those nominated today are now in
a little bit of trouble. But we're
praying for you that you will do well.
So, those of you who end up getting
through this process, we will not name
these people to you today. You're not
going to hear names today. We're not
going to announce it tonight. We're not
going to announce it Wednesday night.
No, the names that get through the
vetting process will happen and you will
hear their names. Then come and get your
bucket. We we'll get their names. If you
will pass your pens and your pieces of
paper to the end of the aisle, please
fold them closed. Don't let anybody see
who you've nominated. Get the pens to
the end of the aisle. And gentlemen, as
soon as you're ready, you can begin
picking those up. But we will not be
announcing anything today because we do
not want to in any way, you know, infer
that somebody wasn't qualified or
anything like that. That will be worked
through and you will only hear the names
of those that get through the vetting
process. You understand that, right? We
want to totally respect every name,
every name that's put forward. We want
to respect it. We want to do the right
thing. Amen.
