We begin this series uh hoping to find
more shepherds. We'll see. That's only
in the good Lord's hands, not in our
hands.
We're never so mature
that we don't need good leaders. Anybody
that thinks that they don't need a good
leader is just mistaken.
We're just past
the 249th
anniversary of the Independence Day.
to get where we are, whether you've
liked them all. Of course, none of us
liked all of our leaders, but without
the presidents, without the Congress,
without the judges, without the men who
were a part of the constitutional
congress and the eight presidents before
the first president. Uh, all of that
worked together to give us what we have.
We would not have survived without them.
That's just all there is to it. And much
of the world might not have.
I just came across our 49th wedding
anniversary just a few weeks ago. Deb
and I have been married 49 years. And
I'll be honest with you, without elders,
without parents, without friends,
without guides, we wouldn't have made
it. If we hadn't gone through some
marriage conferences, we wouldn't have
made it. If you think you can make it in
this world on your own, you're making
terrible mistakes. If you think you're
that good that you don't need leaders,
you're just mistaken. Let me give you a
story. Uh this hit the news. In fact, it
hit at least uh 18 and a half million
people viewed the Tik Tok video. Not
that I've seen it, but it's about uh a
sheep named Barack. I don't know why
they named it that, but that was its
name. It had been abandoned in Australia
and nobody knew where it was. They found
it and Barer had to be given a long
needed shear.
It had been left alone so long that it
had 78 pounds of fleece on its body. It
almost couldn't move.
Kelly Denham and Edgar Mi uh Mission
Farm Sanctuary said that the sheep needs
at least one shearing a year. Now, I
don't I've never raised sheep, so I I
don't know anything about sheep. Been
around cows, been around horses, but
don't know anything about sheep. But
apparently, it turns out like this. The
sheep left to itself by one year, if it
isn't sheared once a year,
that's dangerous.
In fact, it will get overwhelmed to the
point not only can it not move, but it
will get infected. There's too much
nastiness and it will get infected.
It'll get sick and it will die. A sheep
has to be cared for. It is not an animal
that can take care of itself. Now maybe
once upon a time it could be like that
but the sheep that are raised today have
to have a shepherd and they have to
shear the sheep every year. There's a
message in that for us. I think that you
need help.
You need
help.
Jesus taught several basic truths about
good shephering that we read a moment
ago. Let me run through a few of those
and see if you can see what I see. A
good shepherd's rule over sheep. Matthew
2:6,
Bethlehem, out of you shall come a ruler
who will shepherd my people Israel.
Shepherds rule. The sheep don't rule. A
shepherd does the ruling. I know that's
a term you might not like that's being
associated with shepherds and you may
not think that elders and sheep
shepherds have the right to rule. You
need to adjust your thinking.
Good shepherds keep sheep together. In
Matthew 9:36 it says they were weary and
scattered like sheep having no shepherd.
Shepherds keep the sheep together.
It is important to have shepherds lest
the church disintegrate. Without
shepherds, the sheep will not stay
together. Good shepherds can tell sheep
from goats.
That's an important message. It says in
Matthew 25:32, "As a shepherd divides
his sheep from the goats." Elders
definitely know who the goats are
and they know who the sheep are.
And you may not be aware of it, but they
know which ones are goats
and they know which ones are sheep
if they're a good shepherd. John 10 and
verse two, he who enters by the door is
the shepherd of the sheep. So good
shepherds go where the sheep are. They
come in where the sheep are. The idea of
being a good good shepherd and not being
where the sheep are doesn't make any
sense at all. Good shepherds sacrifice
their lives for the sheep. John 10 11.
The good shepherd gives his life for the
sheep. And that's literally true in the
olden days. You remember David who was a
shepherd risked his life by taking on a
bear and a lion with just just a sling.
Good shepherds know their sheep. John
10:14, "I know my sheep." Jesus said,
"He knows everyone that's his sheep."
You think he's in heaven and he's not
aware if you're faithful to him or not.
He knows you. He knows your name. He
knows your address. He knows your social
security number. I'm sorry, maybe I'm
not supposed to know it, but the Lord
knows everything about you. But good
shepherds are known by the sheep. In
John 10:14, I am known by mine. So, he
is known. So, we know Jesus and Jesus
knows us. Now, that's an interesting
thing because the Palestinian beds are
interesting people. They'll they'll have
uh at the end of the day, you know, it's
the close of the day when they've been
out grazing, you normally take them to a
watering hole or a place where there's a
well and then they pump water out and
all the sheep drink. And so, eight or
nine shepherds with all their sheep will
come together. Now, they'll just mix.
The sheep will just mix all up and you
think, well, how are they going to know
which one is their sheep? And how are
they going to get away from there with
all their sheep intact instead of
somebody taking some of their sheep
away? How do they do that? Well, they
don't have to worry about that at all.
They let them all drink. They give them
plenty of time and later as it's getting
close the day, one shepherd will give a
thrill or he'll whistle a certain way or
another one will have a particular read
pot that he will play or another one
will start calling out in his voice and
all of a sudden as those shepherds go
their separate way then the sheep begin
to separate and follow their shepherd
because they know their sheer shepherd.
That's not a story in the Bible. That is
a real thing. And it's a real thing
here. By the way,
the sheep really know the shepherd.
What the Bible teaches us on shephering
is that we need to catch what's in one
place of the scriptures is in all the
places of the scripture. That's a
principle. And you need to know this
principle. And I'm going to hit this
principle several times over the next
few weeks because there's people that
don't understand this basic principle.
What was taught one place was taught
every place in the scriptures. Okay?
That's the reason the scriptures repeat.
That's the reason you have Matthew,
Mark, Luke, John. What was taught one
place was taught every place. John uh 1
Corinthians 4:17 says, "I have sent you
to uh Timothy. He will remind you of my
ways which are in Christ just as I teach
everywhere in every church." And if
you're a faithful teacher of the gospel,
what you would teach one place, you
would teach everywhere. Well, that's
what Paul did. What he taught one place,
he taught everywhere. So when you look
in the Bible and you read about
shephering, what's taught one place is
taught everywhere else on that subject.
It's not just taught one place and not
taught elsewhere. It's the same
everywhere. 1 Corinthians 16:1 says, "As
I've given orders to the church of
Galatia, so you must do also. Whatever
Galatia had to do, then the church in
Corinth and Macedonia had to do. What
the church in Corinth in Macedonia had
to do, the church in Antioch had to do."
Brethren, that's just the way it is.
There's no such thing as one church
believing one thing and another church
believing another thing. That's just not
correct. Period. Philippians 3 and verse
one. For to me to write the same things
to you is not tedious. So we all get
taught the same thing. It's the same
Bible, right?
Same Bible you read, one I read, right?
Second Peter chapter 1 and verse 12. I
will not be negligent to remind you
always of these things, though you know
them or established in the present
truth. You know, I'm going to teach a
lot that you're going to absolutely
already know. And that's so good for
you.
The idea, well, I want something new.
No, you don't.
You want the same old same old every
week. Amen.
Amen. Walls, listen. You want the same
old, same old. You want it to be as
about as boring as you could possibly
get as far as being repetitive.
The idea that you needed something new
to be better is not biblical.
You need the same old gospel that was
preached way back in Acts chapter 2.
That's all you need. So, let's see what
the church in Acts practiced regarding
the elders. And I'm going to be quick
just see what they practice about this
ruling thing. Okay? I just want you to
see just a few little points on how it
is true even though we've already read
it that a shepherd rules. You already
read that. You saw that. So I need to
emphasize that because it is true that
whether or not we like it or not, this
church is not governed by one of the
members who's vocal. It is governed by
an eldership.
It is not governed by me, the preacher.
I have a few say in what goes on here,
but not a lot. It is governed by
the eldership. Now, that doesn't mean
you don't get a voice, and we'll talk
about that in just a minute. Number one,
shepherds rule by handling money and
stuff. I would have put and stuff
because I don't know what all stuff
includes. But money is the one that
worries everybody. I've noticed that
everybody always whenever we start
talking about this, it's all about
money. People scared to death about the
money. Okay, I understand that. Okay,
listen to Acts 11:es 27 through30. You a
good study on that. I'm just going to
read verse 30 says this. They also did
and sent it to the elders by the hand of
Barnabas and Saul. Now if you want to
know what this they did and what they
sent to Barnabas and Saul and how they
brought it to the elders. So Barnabas
and Saul had gone or Paul had gone
around and had collected help for the
brethren there in Jerusalem. And the
brethren had sent this help during this
famine to the elders in Jerusalem. And
the elders in Jerusalem took care of
that money and whatever provisions there
were. Could have been seed, could have
been food, it could have been dollars,
it could have been clothes, it could
have been a lot of things, but they were
the ones that handled the distribution
of that. And let me just put it this
way. There is no way that all of us can
handle the money. We just can't. It's
just not. We have to have a central way
of doing it. And they learned a long
time ago the best way to do that is let
the elders kind of make sure it's done.
Now, they don't have to be the ones who
actually do it. And that's not true.
They just make sure it gets done. That's
it. They make sure it gets done. And I
don't know if they actually distribute
it, but they made sure it got done. You
had responsible people. Second way,
here's the second little truth. These
are simple truths. Shepherds rule by
receiving mandates. One of the first
mandates that shepherds receive is to
take the job that they've got. Now, one
of the things that's really interesting
here, and you won't get it in your
Bible, so if you would, you turn, you
might want to turn in your Bible to Acts
chapter 14 and verse 23. Acts chapter
14:23. And you see it yourself, and you
might want to underline this little
word. And then you want to go look it up
in the Greek because you can look it up.
You can do that online now. You don't
need a preacher to show you how to do
that. Just look it up online because I
know some of you going to doubt what I'm
fixing to tell you because you haven't
looked at the Greek. Verse 23 says, "So
when they had appointed, it's the word
appointed, elders in every church and
prayed with fasting, they commended them
to the Lord in whom they had believed."
The word for appointed in that passage
is the word you see up there. You see
it? I'm not pronouncing it for you.
Y'all figure that one out. All right?
You see it? It means literally to
stretch. And by definition, it meant to
vote.
To vote by stretching out the hand to a
point. The elders in the New Testament
were voted on
by the church.
That's what it means. There is no such
thing as an eldership that gets
appointed without the vote of the
congregation.
Not biblically anyway. And the next word
that's used in Titus 1, Titus was a part
of setting an order and appointing. So
it can be done in a few different ways,
but fundamentally here's what I want you
to know. God appoints men to the
eldership by the Holy Spirit. That's
Acts 20 and verse 28. But what that is
is God through the Holy Spirit inspired
men to know what the qualifications
were. But apparently the men and the
women were the ones who actually yes
they voted on who it was. So here's the
truth. We obey them. They obey us. You
get that? They are put in by us
and we obey them. So it goes both ways.
So they receive mandates from the Lord
and their mandate is to oversee us. They
don't get a choice about that if they're
going to be in there. Number three,
shepherds rule by considering matters.
Acts chapter 15 and verse 6. Now, I
could go to Acts 15:2, Acts 15:4, Acts
15:6, Acts 15:22, Acts 15:23, Acts 16:4,
Acts 21:es 18-2. And in each of those
cases, elders were making considerations
about what was to be done. And every one
of those, you read them yourself. I've
given you the references. You go read
them in case you don't believe elders do
this. But listen to what it says in this
one. Acts 15:6. Now the apostles and
elders came together to consider this
matter. Listen to me. The apostles did
not make this decision without the
elders. The elders did not make this
decision without the apostles. We have
gone into so much detail about how
apostles have authority that sometimes
we forget that elders have authority.
Okay? The apostles and elders made these
decisions and elders were a part of the
consideration of the matter. Here's the
reason. They are the ones that are to
think about matters that we have to deal
with. Now listen to me. That does not
mean elders have to be the smartest guy
in the room. That does not mean they
have to be the sharpest knot in the
drawer. In fact, I almost wish that
elders weren't so smart sometimes.
I'm not kidding.
Because the truth is what we need is not
smart. We need spiritual.
What we need is people who have wisdom,
not who are smart. There's a big
difference between being smart and
having wisdom. Bunch of people go to
church who are smart but have no wisdom.
Some of you might be in that category
right now. Just because you got a high
IQ doesn't mean you have any wisdom at
all.
Some of the dumbest things I've ever
seen done is by somebody that some of
the smartest people I ever knew.
So don't go with that one. But you need
to be spiritual and biblical. They are
to be spiritual and biblical in their
thinking. And therefore, and you may
say, "Well, I don't think that was very
smart." Well, it doesn't have to be
smart. What they decide doesn't have to
be smart. It has to be spiritual,
biblical, full of God's wisdom, not
necessarily smart as you would evaluate
it. That's the reason sometimes people
second guess elderships because they're
smart, but they're not spiritual.
Sorry if that stings some of you just a
little bit. Maybe you need to hear it.
Number next
point, by the way,
shepherds rule by shephering members. It
says in Acts 20:28, "Therefore take heed
to yourself and all the flock among
which the Holy Spirit has made you
overseers." That's not to be made light
there.
Men are not elders without the Holy
Spirit
to shepherd the church of God which he's
purchased with his own blood. It is all
about the church the members uh and back
to the sheep. Every member needs to be
cared for individually everyone. That's
a big responsibility when you consider
this is a church of I don't know 350
somewhere in that neighborhood on a good
day. Right now it doesn't look like a
good day, but on a good day about 350,
maybe 400 even. But bottom line is every
last one of you needs a contact with an
elder at least once a year.
Everyone
you shy away from it, you're that sheep
that probably needs shearing.
If it's been a while since you've talked
to an elder, you probably need a little
sharing. Somebody needs to do a little
service to you. A little bringing along.
We all need it. We all need contact with
our shepherds. We all need it. And by
the way, that also means we all need
contact with each other cuz we're to
kind of shepherd each other, right? And
don't we need to kind of not just our
Now, don't get me wrong, we got to do
that with our family. Yes. But we need
to kind of not just shepherd our family,
but shepherd our friends. Amen. And you
know, iron sharpens iron. and and and
spend a little time on spiritual matters
with each other and not just talk about
fishing or not just talk about golf or
not just talk about uh sports Alabama
football. I know that's the most
important thing to most of you, but not
just talk about that, but talk about
things that don't relate to that. Amen.
Long as it doesn't involve Tennessee,
that's great. So,
I'm just kidding, Jim.
Shepherds rule by here. Here's the
message. Stay with me. Shepherds rule by
handling money and matters. Uh they
shepherd rule by receiving mandates.
Shepherds rule by considering matters
that concern the whole group and have to
make hard decisions. And shepherds rule
by shephering members. 1 Timothy 5
and verse 17. 1 Timothy 5 and verse 17.
Elders who rule well be counted worthy
of double honor. That's a guy that would
probably get paid and be an elder. We
have such a man worthy of double honor.
1 Timothy 5 and verse 19, do not receive
an accusation against an elder except
from two or three witnesses. And then it
says in verse 20, those who are sinning
rebuke in the presence of all. So they
have to be held accountable as well. So
you have to be held accountable. They
have to be held accountable. Nobody gets
out of that. So that we shepherd the
shepherds and the shepherds shepherd us.
They there are such things as false
shepherds that some feed themselves and
not you. That can happen. Matthew 7:15.
who come to you in sheep's clothing, but
inwardly they are ravenous wolves. They
just want to eat the sheep. And then of
course there's some that run away from
hard situations, which we read a while
ago, the hireling flees because he's a
hirling and does not care about the
sheep. If it's all about money, then
he'll leave if their times get hard.
Some are not qualified to handle
situations. It says in Titus 1:9, "Not
holding fast the faithful word, not able
to exhort and convict those who
contradict." So, you have to be able to
do the hard thing. So, if you're
considering, if you're out here and I'm
talking to you right now and you're one
of the ones that might be considered as
an elder candidate, you might be. I
don't know who they are right now. So,
whoever they are, here's some things you
really need to think about. And that is
you got to feed them. This isn't about
us feeding you.
And if you're going to run away from
hard situations, we don't need you.
And if you're not qualified to handle
hard doctrinal issues, we don't need
you.
So it goes both ways, doesn't it? But we
need men who would do those things.
Theologian Stanley Hersvas
in an article about authority,
he used a medical
uh analogy.
If a medical student uh who's in school
to become a a doctor told his adviser,
because they all have these advisors,
uh I'm not going uh to take anatomy this
year.
I'm just into relating to people.
and he asked literally to skip taking
anatomy in his class so he could focus
on learning how to develop his
relationship his bedside manner.
The medical school would reply,
"You do you think
that you can do that? Are you kidding?
You're going to take anatomy whether you
like it or not. You're going to take it
even though it's tough.
even though you don't think you need it,
you're going to take anatomy.
And then he makes this point. Now, what
that shows is that people believe
incompetent physicians can hurt them.
Therefore, people expect medical schools
to hold their students responsible for
the kind of training that is necessary
to be competent physicians. Do you agree
with that? Amen. You want your medical
people to be confident. Amen. Amen.
Walls, I want to go to a doctor that
knows what he's doing. Amen. That
studied anatomy that knows a little bit
about drugs, that knows what I ought to
really take, what I ought to really do.
You got cancer. You not going to a
doctor that you don't think is one of
the top in the field. You need to change
doctors. Amen.
You want to go to a good doctor, right?
On the other hand, few people believe an
incompetent shepherd would do any
damage.
We need a better discernment.
We put somebody in that's your good old
boy,
you're asking for trouble.
We need good men, period.
And it's not kind of important. It's
like the thing. It's not one of the
things.
It's the thing.
Because we don't need guys that just
think they're smart.
We need guys who are holy.
We don't need businessmen. We need
spiritual men.
We don't need people who are
goodlooking.
We need people who will look good at the
sheep. We need people who actually care
about the sheep. Amen. That's what we
need. So, let's pray and let's study and
let's seek qualified shepherds. You got
10 weeks to look out among you. You got
10 weeks to pray about this thing. You
got 10 weeks to look at the
qualifications, to look at the book when
you get a chance, and to we'll we'll
give you some help along the way.
There's going to be some paperwork that
will remind you of the qualifications.
We're going to study the three passages
that are on the qualifications of
elders. And listen to me. If they're
missing one of those qualificselves,
though in the middle of doing this and
while you're being a judge and you're
looking out and you're evaluating,
Remember when you point a finger, a few
of them pointing back,
right? So, while you're looking around
and doing this, take a long look at
yourself. Do I care about the sheep or
I'm only here to be cared for?
Did you even know the person near you?
Do you even talk to anybody? Is
everybody supposed to come find you and
hug you and love you and pray for you
and show you that you need sharing?
Everybody's got to do for you cuz it's
you world. It's all about you. It's your
little world and you're the only one
that matters.
Or could you actually care about
somebody and actually get up and walk
across the room, shake their hand,
somebody you don't even know? Or is it
just about your ego?
You know what?
I'm preaching at me.
Seek a shepherd's heart. Amen.
care for the sheep and seek good men out
there to lead us. I believe God will
bless us. Don't you? Let's pray about
it. Holy Father, we need your help. Uh
we got a a path to take here that's
going to take a little while, but we
need your help. Give us wisdom. Give us
the right spirit. May the Holy Spirit
guide us. And Father, we pray that if
there's someone here today that's not
right with you, that they'll give their
heart to you even now as we're praying,
they'll say in their heart, please help
me to make Jesus Lord over our their
life. And we pray, Father, that not only
will they pray that, but Father, in
their heart, but they will repent,
change their heart, and truly uh come to
faith and then choose to be baptized for
the remission of their sins. Father,
help us to help them. Bless them and
bless us as we try to be your sheep.
It's in Jesus name we pray. Amen.
If you need to come, come while you're
standing while we sing.
