First, I want to thank God uh for
allowing me um this opportunity um to
bring the lesson to you tonight. Um I
want to thank him for guiding my studies
um guiding my thoughts and decisions. uh
as I prepared for this lesson um I hope
and pray that he uses me to be a
instrument for him um to say what he
wants me to say um as I go through this
lesson. So I want to thank God. Um, I
this year I I said to myself, you know,
I'm going to try to
step outside of my comfort zone. Um, and
try to grow uh for the Lord. Um, and
that's what I've I've been trying to do.
And he's he's been there. He's been
guiding me um every step of the way. Uh,
this is definitely outside of my comfort
zone. um
uh uh you know leading singing that's
out of my comfort zone, but uh he's he's
however he wants to use me um I'm I'm
here for it. So uh first thanks thanks
to God for that. Um thanks to the elders
um and brother Rex uh for setting this
up um for all giving the men of this
congregation an opportunity to um bring
a word to get out of their comfort zones
as well and and
just uh grow grow. Um it's I I believe
it's going to definitely help um our
congregation as we move forward. Um, so
I do want to thank the elders, Brother
Rex, um, for this opportunity and, uh,
Brother Rex, like everybody else has
said, your job is safe. Um, this is not
this is not what I do. Um, so your job
is safe and uh,
about I don't know how I don't know how
you do it every single week. So,
blessings to you. Um,
I want to thank my my son. Um, just
pardon me for a moment. when I put my
proud dad hat on for a second. Um, I do
want to thank my son for reading the
scripture. Um, I it gives me joy every
time I see him um want to work in the
Lord's church. Um,
you've come a long way from that little
kid who was eager to stand by me um
while I well sit sit by me first. He
would always come up and sit on the
front row. Um, but I asked him all the
time when he was little, you know, you
want to go up? He's like, nah, no, I'm
I'm okay. No, I'm okay. And then he got
the confidence to stand. So, as I did
the scriptures and different things, he
got the confidence to stand up. Um, and
now he's he's growing um as a young man
in Christ. Uh he's willing and eager to
get up and read scripture, to, you know,
wor uh serve trades, different things,
anything that he is able to do. Um so he
has grown and um I am proud proud of
him. Um proud of both of my kids. I mean
the Lord says you know in Proverbs 22:6
train up a child in the way he should go
and when he is old he will not depart
from it. Um that is our prayer for both
of our kids. Um with with any of our
kids here at the congregation.
um just we we have to
uh continue to give them that
opportunity to grow. Um and we we pray
that they get that relationship with
God. Um I I always say we as parents, we
introduce our kids to God, but they have
to get their own relationship, make that
own relationship with God. um for that
to stay um they it cannot be attached
and hold on to to our relationship with
God. Um they have to uh you know get
that personal relationship, talk to God,
study his word um and to grow that way.
So I pray um that for all the kids um
that they continue to grow into the Lord
and not depart when you become an adults
um and uh go your way. Um I like the
young adults. I I love the young
professionals here. They they are great
examples of that. Um those that have
went off to school, came back, or just
never left, but they still are here
serving the Lord. Um that is always uh a
blessing. So um well let me let me take
off that that my my proud dad hat um for
now. Um but yeah that that lesson there
you know train up a child that's like I
heard preachers say before that's that's
free of charge. You don't have to pay
for that one. That's free of charge
right there. Um so let me introduce
myself for your for those who don't know
me. Um those are maybe visiting or new
to the congregation. My name is Gante
Solomon. I'm one of the uh deacons here
um at Creekide. I've been a deacon um
for
10 plus years. I'm not exactly sure what
the date was um when when I was uh uh
when I became a deacon. Um I
but I do remember one day I do remember
my baptism day. Um my baptism birthday
um I've been uh was just yesterday
actually. So um uh it was June the 28th,
2000 while I was in college. So uh I I
told my son uh we we share the same name
but we also share the same baptism birth
month. So his his his birth baptism was
in June 18th. So um and that was a great
day where I'll never forget that. Um but
so
uh like I said, I am a deacon here. Um,
and I work closely with the elders,
specifically brother, uh, brother Dwight
Eper, on any of our benevolence needs.
Um, whatever it may be, um, when it
comes to those, uh, that that we can we
are able to help. Uh, I'm I'm here for
that. Um, everything's kept
confidential. You never know, um, how
that goes, but it is kept confidential.
uh the benevolence ministry, we go, you
know, we go by uh you know, the
community crew. So, I'll talk a little
bit about the community crew and what we
do. Um and then I'll get into the
lesson. So, community crew uh is, if you
don't know, that's what the benevolence
ministry is. We pride ourselves on being
the crew that goes out to the community
to bring those to help those in the
community as well as those that are in
our own uh in our own congregation.
We have several events that we do during
the year, but one thing we do every week
is our hope closet. Um hope closet is
done every Thursday. We have a group of
great volunteers that come out, give
their time every Thursday uh from 6:30
to 7:30. We open our doors to the
community um and provide for food,
hygiene,
uh small appliances, different things
that they may stand in need of. Um we do
that on a weekly basis here at the
building. Um it has been a blessing to
do that. Um, and we do have great plans
as we get ready to go into uh the new
building when that happens. Um, so
that's one thing. Uh, another event we
do quarterly. We try to do quarterly
events every year. Um, one is the spring
roll. Um, spring roll, uh, for you guys
don't know, you guys who always help out
to it, but spring roll is where we
collect luggage, um, for those foster
kids who are aging out of the, uh,
foster system. Um, so we want to give
them new luggage um, that they can take
and put their things in um, as they get
ready to go into uh, the adult world.
Um,
Smart Starts for Students. Um, that is
our back to school. Um, where we provide
school supplies, uh, backpacks, things
like that to the community. Um, that is
actually plug put a little plug right
now. We're actually starting to collect
with that. Uh, this today is the first
day we're starting to collect. We'll be
collecting throughout the, uh,
throughout the the month to get ready
for that. So, um, that's our back to
school. Um we do soctober which is
during October where we collect socks um
and all those socks we give to the
nursing homes and the areas um as well
as foster care um facilities um during
soctober um for that. And one last thing
is the holiday heart. Um, that's where
you guys did a great job last year for
the holiday heart is where we give the
um try to
make the kids
holidays a little brighter while we give
them gifts um one wrap gift um as some
may not you know uh are able to have a
gift during the holiday season. So we
try to do that as well. So, we have
plenty things going on um that you want
if you want to be involved, just let me
know. We if you have an idea of
something else we can try to do, I'm
always ready and and eager uh to to to
take that on and and listen to what you
have to say and see what we can do. Um
I'm very passionate about the this
benevolence and and the community um and
trying to help our those that are in
need um as well as you know our brothers
and sisters who may may be in need as
well. Um and the reason for that is just
we I said we all we all run this race of
life um and we're all not dealt the same
hands um as we run this race of life.
So, if there's anything that I could do
or we could do to lighten their their
race a little bit to help them out, I'm
here for it. Um, but you know, just not
only that, it's just
in in any card game, anything games you
play, you know, you're dealt a certain
hand. If you play the game long enough,
you might you might be on the other end
of that where your hand is not as good
as it was the first time and you may be
in need of something um and someone to
help you as well. So, um that's that's
that's so that's kind of where I I stand
on that and I just want to try to
lighten the load. So, um lesson for
tonight is called love and action. Um
this is our theme of our community crew.
Um we want to show God's love through
our actions um to those that we come in
contact with. So um the theme for
tonight is love and action. Um
so this evening I want to speak to you
briefly about a core part of Christian
living um caring for the less fortunate.
This isn't optional. It's a calling.
It's not about charity. It's about
obedience and having a heart of
compassion.
God doesn't just suggest it, he commands
it.
We are a mirror to the world around us.
So when we give and take care of our
fellow man, we reflect God's generous
heart and help the world to see him
through us. God's heart for the poor is
clear throughout scripture.
From the Old Testament to the New
Testament, God consistently commands his
people to provide for the poor, the
widow, the orphans, and the strangers.
This evening, uh we will explore several
of these scriptures as we go through the
lesson
and try to answer
um a couple of questions um as we go
through it. Um the questions are here.
We're going to talk about who are the
poor, how should we give, matters of the
heart, and when do we stop giving?
So, first, who are the poor?
Um, in our in our scripture reading
here, verse seven of it says, "If there
is among you a poor man of your
brethren, within any of the gates in
which your land, which the Lord your God
is given you, you shall not harden your
heart, nor shut up your hand from your
brother." So, this verse here right off
the bat answers the first thing. Answer
one, brothers and sisters in Christ.
Because it says brethren. Um that is the
easy answer there. Uh brothers, our
brethren, our brothers and sisters in
Christ could be those who are the poor
or in needy. um
scripture. Another scripture here that
we have is uh Galatians chapter 6 and 10
where it talks about um
when we have an opportunity to do good
let us do good espec to all especially
those in the household of faith. So our
brothers and sisters
could be the needy and the poor. And
this one here, I say it's the easy
answer. Uh because
for the majority of us, we don't have a
issue with giving to our friends, our
brothers when when they when they need
it. You know, we're we're set up here to
to give to that. We we have that
personal relationship with them. Um, so
if someone is one of your brothers are
in need or your sisters are in need, you
know, you talk to them all the time.
Your they're your friends, there are
your acquaintances. You see them at
least every Sunday. Um, and like I said,
the majority of us, if your brother
needs it, hey, we're here for it. Let's
give it to your brother. But in that
same scripture
in Galatians 6:10 it says
I want to point out it says let us do
good to all but especially to those of
the household of faith. So the second
answer of that who is the poor who are
the poor and needy it's all. It could be
all is all. Um all is your neighbor, the
stranger who the you know it could
actually be your neighbor. It could
actually be your coworker. Um the
person that you see in the grocery
store, the the person you see on the
side of the road. Um if we have that
opportunity to to do good, um let us try
to do so. Um we have several scriptures
that tells us about how we should treat
our neighbor. Um Galatians
Galatians 5:13 and 14 says, "For you
brethren
have have been called to liberty. Only
do not use liberty as an opportunity for
the flesh, but through love serve one
another. For all the law is fulfilled in
one word. Even in this you shall love
your neighbor as yourself.
Mark I mean Matthew 22:39 says
and the second is alike. You shall love
your neighbor as yourself.
Mark 12 30 and 31 says and you shall
love the Lord your God with all your
heart with all your soul with all your
mind and with all your strength.
This is the first commandment.
Verse 31 says, "And the second is like
is this. You shall love your neighbor as
yourself. There is no other commandment
greater than these."
Loving your neighbor as yourself.
Everyone in here loves them loves
themselves. So if there was anything
that
you needed and you had the opportunity
to get what your need what you have in
need, you will go by any means to get it
to yourself. Um but when it comes to I
say this is the hard answer when it
comes to to to the neighbor uh is
because I've I've heard things of you
know I don't know them. I
don't know what they're going to do with
what I give to them. Uh they don't need
it. Um
all different excuses um that that come
up on why it's hard to give to someone
that you don't know. Um,
but us being Christians,
we
we have to
trust the process. We have to give if
we've been a blessing to give and trust
God to do what he has what he is going
to do. Uh, we are not the judge um of
these people. In James 4:12 says um
there is one lawgiver who is able to
save and destroy. Who are you to judge
another? So we are not the judge of the
people that we give to or whoever we
want whoever we give to. Um now it
doesn't mean we just give carelessly to
everybody. Um, but we we are called just
to give and allow God to do what he's
going to do with it from there. We are
called to show the love of God as we go
through it. Um, because sometimes
you never know who you're giving to. Um,
you could be entertaining angels. Uh,
Hebrews 13:1-2 says, "Let brotherly love
continue. Do not forget to entertain
strangers. For by doing so, you have
unwittingly entertained angels. So those
strangers that you come in contact with
could be those angels from God. Um
more than just that as well as
entertaining angels. Uh Matthew 25 37-4
talks about you know you're you're
entertaining you could even be
entertaining the Lord. says, "Then the
then the righteous will answer him,
saying, Lord, when do we see you hungry
and feed you or thirsty and give you
drink? When did we see you a stranger
and take you in or naked and clothe you?
Or did or when did we or when did we see
you sick or in person and come to you?"
And the king will answer and say to
them, "Surely I say to you, in so much
is as much as you did to one of the
least of these, my brethren, you've done
to me."
Now, we don't let us not be the ones who
want to pass up the opportunity to be in
the presence of the Lord um by having
our judging of strangers.
Um,
so we give to all. Now, how do we give
is the next question I would like to the
next question I would like to answer
through the scriptures and our in our
scriptures here. Um, the end of the end
of verse 7 going to verse 8 talks about
how we should give. It says, "You shall
not harden your heart, nor shut your
hand for your brother, for your poor
brother, but you shall open your hand
wide to him and willingly live and will
willingly lend him sufficient for his
needs, whatever he needs."
Several answers to this question um is
here in these verses here. Uh first one,
how we should give is not with a
hardened heart.
It's not with a hardened heart. Um as I
said, we come up with all the different
excuses on why we harden our hearts. But
um but let's remember what Proverbs 29:7
says, "The righteous considers the cause
of the poor, but the wicked does not
understand
such knowledge."
Um if we if we have uh we have to be the
righteous and consider the poor. Um how
could we call ourselves righteous if we
don't do this? Um we we have to
when you are when you are trying when
you are giving um like I said you you
want to give not with a hardened heart
not worried about what they are going to
do are they taking advantage of what you
are going what you're giving to them um
but we should be giving not with a
hardened heart um the answer to the next
one is just willingly
uh we should be giving willingly
Um it says in Proverbs 22:9 it says, "He
who has a generous eye will be blessed
for he gives of his poor of of his bread
to the poor."
God
has blessed us with all that we have so
we can be a blessing to someone else.
Um he he doesn't want us to hoard what
we have um to keep it just to ourselves.
Uh sometimes we wonder
why we don't have more than what we
have. Sometimes we wonder, well, why
haven't I been blessed with XYZ?
Whatever it may be. Um but we have to
ask ourselves, what are we doing with
what God has already blessed us with?
Are we using it accordingly? Are we
being a blessing to someone else with
what we are able to? Um that might you
might find your answer to why you're not
getting more than what you what you
think you should have. um
in that. So
um
all right. So um we have a perfect
example
of how we should give
and that perfect example is Jesus
Christ.
Um 2 Corinthians
chapter 8 9 says,
"For you know the grace of our Lord
Jesus Christ, that though he was rich,
yet for your sakes he became poor that
you through his poverty might become
rich."
God gave us all. He gave up himself for
us and so we could become rich um
through through him.
And it should not be
he's not asking for us to give all that
we have to everyone or to anyone who's
in need, but we we should be willing to
do with some of what we have to give to
others. Let us let the love of Christ we
should be letting the love of Christ
show through through us. Um
so we should be willingly to give um and
to be a blessing to others.
Also in that same verse on how we should
give
in the latter part of verse 8 it says
lend him sufficient for his need
whatever he needs.
So this is where
we have to understand we have to be we
have to understand the difference
between needs and wants. Um when you're
in when you're in benevolence and giving
to those uh it does not mean that you
give all their wants. Um God double down
doubles down on it in this scripture
here. It says lend sufficiently for his
need whatever he needs. um needs,
food,
hygiene,
clothes,
things of that nature are needs.
Uh you will have people come to asking
for wants. Um, and you know,
anything I mean you could think of
wants,
jewelry,
cars, whatever it may be. Um,
we have to give towards needs. That's
that's that's what God is asking us to
do is give towards their needs. Um, so
like I said, he's not asking you to be
frivolous with what you do are you are
able to do or what you are able to give.
Um, so he does he does give us a mind.
He does give us a way to discern um what
is a need and what is a want. Um, so we
should be willing to give towards
someone's needs.
Uh let's and and when we when we look at
giving, giving really is a heart
condition. Um and really comes down to
your heart and uh your heart being in
the right place. Um so the next thing is
just the matters of the heart. Um the
verses uh for that in our scripture
reading is nine and 10 which talks about
how our heart should be when you are
giving.
It says, "Beware lest there be a wicked
thought in your heart, saying, the seven
year and the seven the seventh year, the
year of release is at hand, and your eye
be evil against your brother, your poor
brother, and you give him nothing, and
he cry out to the Lord against you, and
it becomes sin against you. You shall
surely give to him and your heart should
not be grieved when you give to him
because for this thing the Lord your God
will bless you all with with bless you
in all your works and in all to which
you put your hand.
So the first way is a matter of the
heart is we have to beware of wicked
thoughts.
If your heart is wicked or you when you
give to someone,
you might as well keep it. It's not it's
it's is it's not going to be well
received by the God. Um
no one wants to receive anything from
you while you're grumbling with your
with a wicked eye and and while you're
trying to do it here. They should be
happy. they should be happy I'm giving
to them. Um, you would not want to
receive anything that way. Um,
it's it's about the heart and how you
give. I It's about the presentation. I I
remember uh episode of the Cosby the Cos
Cosby Show. I grew up on the Cosby Show,
you know, u loved it. Still do. You
know, you feel your way about it. But um
I do remember a episode where uh Vanessa
came home with Dabis Bricky.
Um this was she was in college. She came
home with him. They surprised him with
her fiance. They didn't know anything
about him so forth. And um Dr. Huxable
uh told him told her how she presented
him to him to them. She said that, you
know, asked him, you know, what kind of
steak? You like a steak? Yeah, I love a
steak. Okay. Chopped it. What all you
want on your steak? Your potatoes? What
all? He's like, "Oh, this is great. This
all this is great. This that's how I
like my steak." And he said, "What if I
give you that steak? I take the top of
the trash can lid, turn it over, and
give you your steak on that trash can
lid. It's not that appetizing anymore.
It's not that appetizing. is when you
give it with the wrong heart or you
deliver it with the wrong the wrong way.
Um the same thing goes with with with
your giving to the poor and the needy.
Um they're they they've hit hard times.
People hit hard times. That's going to
happen. Um
and we need to be able to
deliver our deliver help them out in a
way that uh without the grumbling and
the evil eyes and the things of that
nature. Um so the that's what it talks
about. Um the scripture here in our
scripture it talks about the year of
release. Um talk about the year of
release really quick on why people had
this hardened hardened heart or wicked
eye. Um the year release um talks about
it in Deuteronomy 15 the first first two
verses of of this chapter and it says at
the end of every seven years you shall
grant a release of debt and this is the
form of the release. Every creditor who
has lent anything to his neighbor shall
release it. He shall not uh require it
of his neighbor or his brother because
it has been called the Lord's relief. So
we see why some people their heart
wasn't in the right place when they when
that time came around in uh around the
year of the release. They knew if they
gave someone in that year of release
that they were not going to get
something back. They weren't going to
get whatever they gave them back. Um,
and that's why they held back on giving
giving someone um giving someone
something. Uh, they were they were too
worried that they wouldn't get anything
back um and decided just not to give.
Uh, you see they're they were giving for
the wrong reason. The world tends to
have that what's in it for me attitude.
Um, we Christians
shouldn't have this type of this type of
attitude. Um, when we give, we should be
giving just to be a blessing to someone
and to show the love of Christ that
dwells within us. We want them to see
Christ's love. Um, in First John, I'm
not there. There we go. We want them to
see Christ's love. In 1 John 3:16-18, it
says, "By this we know love, because he
laid down his life for us, and we ought
and we also ought to lay down our lives
for the brethren. But whoever has this
world's goods and sees his brother in
need and shuts up his heart from him,
how does the love of God abide in him?"
My little children, let us not love in
word or tongue, but in deed and in
truth. As I said before, Christ gave it
all and we are blessed by his sacrifice
to know true love. So if we are blessed
with goods
and are not willing to give to those to
those that are in need, how is that
showing Christ's love?
Um
we
the end of the end of verse 18 says let
us not love in word or in tongue but in
deeds and in truth. We
have to we can't talk about it. We have
to be about it. We we we
can't see someone in need and say you
know hope they get it what they need. If
we are able to, we've been blessed, if
we are able to give, I say let's do
that. Um because we we don't want uh we
don't want our
giving to turn around and be a sin. Um
in
in the in the latter part of verse 9, it
says um
and he cry out to the Lord against you
and it becomes and it become a sin among
you. Um we should not oppress the poor.
In Proverbs 14:331, it says, "He who
oppresses the poor reproaches his maker,
but he who honors him has mercy on the
needy." We want to bring honor uh to the
Lord. Um so let's have mercy on the
needy. And we, like I said, we have to
be careful that we don't allow our
hearts when we are giving become a sin.
Um,
and when it comes to the heart, when you
when you give, it's giving is a
blessing. That's what we're talking
about here. Giving is a blessing. Um,
the latter part of verse 10 that we read
says, "The Lord your God will bless you
in all your works and it and in all of
which you put your hand to.
The Lord will bless you and you will
lack nothing. You just have to test him.
You just have to try him um and let him
prove you who he is. Proverbs 28:27
says,
"He who gives to the poor will lack will
not lack, but he who hides his eyes will
have many curses."
Like I said before, do we trust God
enough to give to the poor? We have to
realize that we serve an awesome God and
he will not let us go lacking for
anything.
Proverbs 19:17 says, "Who he who has
pity on the poor lends to the Lord and
he will pay back what he has given." The
Lord will pay back. So you don't have to
worry about being repaid or the rear
release and not getting anything back on
when you give to people. Um the Lord is
not slack on his promises and he will uh
he will pay back and so let us give the
right heart um for the right reasons and
that's to help others.
So
when do we when do we stop giving to the
poor and the needy?
In our scripture verse 11 says for the
poor will never cease from the land.
Therefore I command you saying you shall
open your hand wide to your brother to
the poor to your poor and your needy in
your land. Simple answer, never.
Not only that, this is a commandment
from the Lord. It says, "Therefore, I
command you, saying, you shall open your
hand wide to your brother, to your poor,
to your needy." This is a commandment
from the Lord, as I stated earlier. Um,
and don't let your lack of giving
become your sin.
So, as long as the Lord has blessed you,
you should be a blessing to others. Just
like I said in the beginning, you never
know when you might need to be the the
receiving end, be on the receiving end
as one is in need. All it takes is one
situation to turn life upside down. And
we pray that does not happen. We pray
that does not happen to anyone. But if
it does, wouldn't it be nice to have
someone to help you out in your time of
need? So, let's be a c Let's be a church
that shows the love of God in a in us
through our giving. Give to your brother
and your sister in need, your neighbor
and your community and your mission
work. Let us give to the right. Let us
give with the right heart and mind, not
expecting anything in return, knowing
that we serve a God and Lord who gave it
all for us and has blessed us with so
much so we can be a blessing to others
and win souls for him.
Um,
why does it matter? Extra credit
question wasn't on the first thing and
thought about it say hey let's see why
it matters
it's not just about what we give it's
about who we are becoming
when you give you grow
softens your heart aligns us with the
God's kingdom
it breaks the chains of selfishness
it becomes a living testimony and it
becomes a living testimony of God of the
gospel to a watching world.
James 2:15:17 says, "If a brother or
sister is naked and desolute uh of daily
food, and one of you say to him, depart
in peace, be warmed and filled, but you
do not give them the things which you
are need which they are in need of for
your body." What does a profit?
Thus also faith by itself
it does not have works is dead.
Real faith is visible is generous.
Um examples of giving just some examples
of giving. Uh when you sponsor a child,
support a food pantry, you're extending
God's hand. Um
it's not all about, you know, giving of
money and things like that. When you
provide a job or a mentorship mentorship
to someone trying to break a cycle of
poverty, uh you're not just giving
charity. You're offering dignity to them
as well. Um you don't you don't have to
be rich to be a generous. You just need
to have a heart that sees others through
God's eyes.
Everything in nature God created to
give.
Trees give, they give oxygen, wood, they
give shade.
Rivers give, they give water, they give
home for fish, wildlife.
Sun gives warmth, light,
uh, and a sense of direction.
The earth gives his land, gives food. Uh
it gives a place of belonging
and those things give without
even being given an option. We are
created to do more.
We are created, we are designed to give.
Uh, and most of it and most of it gives
uh that stop. We are created to give. We
are created to be more to be be to be
better than all other creations.
um to do good
to do from doing the very thing God puts
us here to do to give of ourselves and
to care for others.
Church,
let's be the people marked by mercy.
Let's be the ones who stop, who seize,
who who give because we know what it
means to have received everything from
Christ.
Let's not store up treasures on earth,
but invest in the kingdom where generous
where generosity never goes unnoticed
and every act of kindness is remembered
in heaven. The Bible says John 13:35,
"By this all will know that you are my
disciples if you love have love for one
of for one another."
This week, find one intentional way to
bless someone in need, not out of pity,
but out of love.
You can easily regularly give, you know,
to those that are in need through our
monthly pantry. Um
but just find you can always just find
find a way to give not out of pity out
of love.
God often uses those moments to change
our hearts as well.
Uh let us let us do a quick prayer
before I close.
Father God,
give us an eye to see the hurting,
hands ready to serve, and hearts willing
to give.
Make us more like Jesus every day. In
his name we pray. Amen.
