Richard Baxter lived between 1615 and
1691 and he was an English Puritan.
Here's what he said. Take heed to
yourselves,
lest your example contradict your
doctrine,
lest you lay stumbling blocks before the
blind, as may be the occasion of their
ruin.
Lest you unsay with your lives what you
say with your tongues and be the
greatest hinderers of the success of
your own laborers.
One proud
sirly lordy word, one needless condeion,
one covetous action may cut the throat
of many and blast the fruit of all that
you've been doing.
Samuel Logan Pringle who lived between
1860 and 1935 an author uh preacher of
holiness if you would he wrote a book
called the soul winners's secret in 1918
and in that book he wrote this about
spiritual leadership spiritual
leadership is not worn won by promotion
but by many prayers and tears.
It is attained by confessions of sin and
much heartarching and humbling before
God.
By self-surrender,
a courageous sacrifice of every idol, a
bold, deathless, uncompromising and
uncomplaining embracing of the cross,
and by an eternal, unfaltering looking
unto Jesus crucified.
It is not gained by seeking great things
for yourself, but like Paul, by counting
those things that are gained to us as
loss for Christ. That is a great price,
but it must be unflinchingly paid by him
who would be not merely a nominal, but a
real spiritual leader of men. A leader
whose power is recognized and felt in
heaven, on earth, and in hell.
We're going to look today at just four
little things,
but I want you to keep in mind the kind
of call you just saw.
You need to see it seriously for
yourself.
I know you're going to look at this in
light of what kind of men we should
have. Yep. But what kind of woman, what
kind of man, what kind of teenager,
what kind of kid should you be?
look at it long and hard with just four
little thoughts today. Number one, a
shephering elder must be qualified
aspirationally.
That's uh more an observation than a
qualification,
but it's still true. It says, again, if
you've got your Bibles open to first
Timothy 3, I recommend you be there. Lay
it well in your lap, maybe. Verse one
says, "This is a faithful saying. If a
man desires the position of a bishop, he
desires a good work." New American
Standard said he aspires to a good work.
An elder nominee
must already be doing good work
and desire to do more.
If a deacon must first be tested
according to verse 10 of this chapter,
how much more so should any man who
would dare take on being an elder?
He must already be tested. And he's
tested by whether or not he's already
working.
So an elder nominee that you might make
must already know what jobs elders are
expected to do. If he doesn't and he's
not doing any of those type jobs, you
need to think carefully before you
recommend him.
Nominate a man who is a pastor or
shepherd of people, who would be good at
counseling because he already kind of
does that. Who would be good at teaching
because he already does that? who would
be good at guiding people because he
already does that. Who would be good at
feeding the brethren because he already
does that? Who would be good at
protecting the church because he already
wants to protect the church? Who would
be good at caring for people either when
they're healthy or when they are injured
because he's already that type person.
So nominate a man who is an elder, not a
young person. The idea of the word elder
is clearly understood. Older. He's not
to be a kid, but full, not just of full
age, but full of spiritual age, full of
spiritual maturity, therefore full of
wisdom. A decision-making man who can
make good decisions, who handles
controversies well already in his life,
who can settle disputes more than start
one, and who can communicate well what
he's trying to say. and nominate a man
who is a bishop or overseer in many ways
already. Who would be good at spiritual
oversight because he kind of already is
a man of spiritual oversight. Who would
be good at leadership because he already
is like a spiritual leader where he is
who would be good at managing the
congregation, its finances and its
people because he already can be seen as
one who manages well. So an elder
nominee must have spiritual knowledge of
the work that's required because he's
already in many ways doing that and
aspiring to do more. So he's not
aspiring so much to the label as he's
aspiring to the work. So a shephering
elder must be qualified
aspirationally
that is he wants to do more. Second
lesson, a shephering elder must be
qualified relationally.
If you really look at a lot of what he's
saying in this text without getting into
the bitsy parts of this, let me glance
over it and show you a couple of things
you might not have noticed. A bishop
then must be blameless. That means you
really can't point anything serious out
that might cost him his soul. He's a
good man. Not perfect, but blameless in
the sense of not really someone you
would doubt whether or not they're going
to heaven. The husband of one wife.
Literally a onewoman man is what the
Greek says. Temperate. That means he
controls himself. Soberminded, thinks
clearly, of good behavior, hospitable.
That means he has people over. He eats
with people. Able to teach. Not given to
wine, not violent, not greedy. If you
think about all of these things, he gets
along with people. He doesn't get into
things. Not greedy for money, but
gentle, not quarrelome, not covetous,
one who rules his own house well. Takes
care of his own business, having his
children in submission with all
reverence. For if a man does not know
how to rule his own house, how will he
take care of the church of God? A lot of
that's about relationships
and how well he handles his
relationships, especially around his
family. So, an elder nominee must
already be a good husband and a father
of children. So, if he doesn't have
children, if he's not married, obviously
he's not those things. So don't nominate
someone, as I've seen before, men who
aren't married and who don't have
children, who've never experienced that.
It's obvious that those create qualities
in you you don't get if you haven't had
them. So that means not just blameless
but a onewoman man who's faithful,
univorced,
trusted, uh not a drunkard or a wife be
Peter uh not working all the time where
he never sees her but one who is greedy
to be with his family and wants to take
care of his family and not greedy of
other things. That's that's the simple
way of looking at this. But if you will,
an elder must already be one
relationally and able to manage and rule
well. That means you if you're going to
nominate someone, and you don't have to
nominate anyone, but if you're going to
nominate someone or a group of people
for that matter, nominate a man who you
can honor. In 1 Timothy 5:17, it says,
"Let the elders who rule well be counted
worthy of double honor, especially those
who labor in the word and doctrine."
That means if you're in ministry
full-time, he's worthy of double honor.
But that means if he's not, he's worthy
of honor. That means that you should
only suggest people that you honor and
nominate a man who you can heed. That
you would be willing to do what they
say. If he gave you advice, you would
listen. 1 Thessalonians 5:12 says, "And
we urge you, brethren, to recognize
those who labor among you and are over
you in the Lord and admonish you." They
give you admonishment to do things. You
need to learn to be able to hear that,
sure, but you also need to nominate
people that you would be willing to heed
that from. Whatever they would suggest
to you, you would respect it enough to
heed it. And nominate a man who you can
obey, which is even further than taking
a warning and heeding a warning. Hebrews
13:17 says, "Obey those who rule over
you and be submissive, for they watch
out for your souls as those who must
give an account." It's a heavy burden
they bear. Therefore, you should only
put someone into that position that you
would be willing to do what they say
about church matters. Would you do that?
So an elder nominee must have spiritual
relationships that so that show forth
such stability that it's the kind of man
that you would go well he said that I
really need to listen to that. I need to
hear that. So a shephering elder must be
qualified relationally. I see how he
handles himself. He's going to give me
good advice and I need to hear it.
Number three,
a shepherd and elder must be qualified
spiritually. Now, pick up on some of the
hints in this text about how what level
of spirituality a man that you would
suggest should have. Let's just start in
verse two. He goes, "A bishop then must
be able to teach." That means he's got
to know enough to teach. It's not enough
to be able to teach. He's got to know
enough to teach. Otherwise, he's not
really able to teach. So, he has to know
enough and he's got to have the ability
to do it. Verse five, take and he must
take care of the church of God. That
means he's got to care for the church.
That's spiritual maturity. That's aware
of the church has to be cared for.
Churches don't survive by being ignored.
And you you may think this church will
get along just fine without anybody
helping you. I assure you, it won't.
people have to work for it all the time.
And not a novice. That means not a new
Christian. So, please don't put someone
in that you know hadn't been a Christian
just a short period of time. Only
recommend someone that you know that's
been around a little while, seen a few
things. Otherwise, what happens and you
may remember this when you first became
a Christian. You were surprised at how
bad sometimes Christians behave. Do you
remember that? You remember when you
were shocked when Christians behave
badly? Well, imagine if you were in a
leadership over it and you got shocked
then. You're liable to quit and run
away. It's not good. You don't need to
be shocked. You need to be aware of a
few things because you've been around
the block. And so, you need to recommend
someone who's been around the block.
Less being puffed up with pride. He fall
in the same condemnation of the devil.
The other aspect of being a new
Christian is sometimes you think you've
made it a little further than you have.
And when you think you're a little
better than you are, then somebody is
going to cut your legs out from under
you. And if you can't handle that,
you're not ready for that. And that's
what you need to be ready for. And so
don't recommend somebody unless you know
they're not a novice and they're not
full of pride. So, an elder nominee must
already be spiritually minded and not a
hopeful. Well, we hope he'll grow into
it. Uh, no. We don't need to nominate
people that we hope will grow into it.
No. Uh, he is not one who's never taught
and maybe he'll learn to teach. No. Uh,
no, that's not what it says here. uh not
one who's never worked, but hopefully
he'll start working. Uh no, uh or never
cared for anybody at church. Hopefully,
he'll start caring. No, not that. Not a
hopeful, but a person who's already
there. So, an elder nominee must already
be qualified spiritually. And that means
that you should nominate a man who is
mature and humbly teaches the Bible
already. First, I mean, Titus 1:es 9-11,
he's got to be able to put people in
their place biblically. And if you can't
put somebody in their place biblically,
you're not really qualified to do this.
And I don't mean to be ugly. I mean,
when something is a lie or not true from
the scriptures and they're going to
teach that, you have to be saying, "No,
no, brother, you can't teach that." And
let me let me talk to you a little bit
about that, and I'll show you why. And
if you can't do that, you're not really
up to the task because that's probably
the most important thing they do is make
sure we're being taught the right thing.
And and nominate a man who is mature and
humbly cares for the brethren. And and
that's got to be done. Uh and somebody's
got to care enough that it's not just
care for himself. And nominate a man
who's mature and humble and serves
faithfully for years, not just recent.
So those are the kind of things to keep
in mind. So an elder nominee must have
already been uh spiritual enough to
teach and correct the rest of us.
Imagine if it was your job and you were
an elder and it was your job to come to
me on a Monday morning and tell me what
I taught was wrong.
Right? Some of y'all scared to death of
me. I wish you weren't. If you got
something against me, please come talk
to me. Okay? I'm really not the bear. I
mean, I sound like a bear, but I'm
really not a bear. You got an issue with
me, come talk to me. Amen. Come talk to
me and tell me off and correct me. But
if you haven't got the grit to correct
me, how are you going to do it with
anybody else? You've got to have the
grit to correct the preacher, whoever's
up here, or whoever's teaching a Bible,
you got to be able to do that because
sometimes, not me, I've never made a
mistake, but sometimes people make a
mistake in what they said. So a
shephering elder must be qualified
spiritually. Number next, a shephering
elder must be qualified reputationally.
He must have the reputation of a good
man, not just in the church. That's
essential. Obviously, he's got to have
the reputation of being a good man in
the church. It says though, however,
verse seven, moreover, he must have a
good testimony among those who are
outside,
uh, lest he fall into reproach and the
snare of the devil. He's got to be a man
that is respected in the church, but in
this case, out of the church. Imagine if
they heard that we put someone in as an
elder who's been convicted in the
community or who's thought of in the
community as a criminal.
So an elder nominee must already be
spiritually minded and and not hopefully
going to be spiritually minded. So a man
not respected by the church is clearly
not qualified. But a man not respected
by the community is clearly not
qualified. So what does his neighbors
think of him? Now don't go to his
neighbor and ask what they think of him.
Don't do that. But I mean you will know.
Don't don't give him a bad reputation by
going and asking his neighbor. So, uh if
you're going to nominate a man, nominate
a man who already has a reputation for
good works. That's, you know, Acts 6,
that's what the apostles told just those
guys that were going to serve the tables
and they needed a good reputation. Uh 1
Timothy 5:10, it says a reputation for
good works is what it says for the the
uh deacons. So, does does he have that
kind of reputation? Does he jump in and
help people? Uh, nominate a man who
already knows the church and the
community long enough to have a
reputation in the place he's living.
Both in that place, he he may not be who
you think he is. And if you if you don't
know him that long, I've seen men that I
thought I knew and two years later be
totally shocked at what they were doing.
Have you ever done that? I've I mean, so
and just be aware it happens. Um, and by
the way, if you know yourself long
enough, you'll do things that shock you,
too. So, don't let that go to your head
as we all do things. We're kind of
shocked we did. But then nominate a man
that who already is known to not be uh
held captive by the devil. Uh 2 Timothy
2 26 it says you can a man can be held
captive by him to do his will. The worst
thing in the world would be is if a man
is actually cloak and dagger covers
himself and yet makes it in and we only
find out later that he's really serving
the devil. And so that would destroy
anything. He could literally take
control of the church. So an elder
nominee must be vetted by all the
members
to know his reputation. So that's why we
don't just couple of people make a con,
you know, over in a corner and the rest
of you don't know about it. It's
essential that you all know the names so
that if there is something one of you
can say, "Hey
uh uh don't think so. We need you to do
that." And sometimes it'll be the wife.
the wife will say, "Hey, uh, I don't
think so." And we need wives to be
willing to do that. It's serious. So, a
shephering elder must be qualified
reputationally. Good testimony. So,
that's basically the lesson today. I
mean, you can see it there. That's a
summary of this text without going word
for word. Let me let me cover a couple
of things in in closing thoughts on
this. We've not even begun to cover the
hem of the garment. I got to tell you, I
feel guilty. I feel like I haven't
taught enough on this subject as much as
I should anyway.
And uh we're going to be looking at a
lot of different qualifications over the
next few weeks.
So, be slow to nominate somebody.
Uh 1 Timothy 5:22 says, "Do not lay
hands on anyone hastily."
You need to talk to them and don't be
quick. Oh, I I I just know. No,
be serious enough. You talk to them. Why
do I say that? Because churches are
facing serious matters.
It's not just what you think. I know you
think the stuff going on in here, this
is serious.
There's stuff going on you don't know
about. Not just in this church, which
that's true,
but in the world around us that affects
us. Let me give you an example. Let me
just quick example. If you want to go to
and watch this, go to YouTube. Uh
there's a YouTube video out called A
Hostile Takeover. How a church in North
Carolina almost lost everything. This
episode one and episode two. A man named
Jason Little became their pastor of that
church. And it was organized by a man
named J. Dreer. Some of you know these
names. And they made the effort by the
Southern Baptist Convention to take a
church that was an independent Baptist
church. building away from that
independent Baptist church. Take their
building away. And it's because of
certain laws you're not aware of because
you've never heard of anything like that
actually going on. And I don't know if
you know this, but we kind of have a
jewel here. And when we get it through,
we're we're a big jewel. And that just
means we will attract flies here.
There will be attempts to take this
church in the future. And you need to be
aware of that that can happen. It has
been done. They diminish this church
down financially so that JD Greer and
his Southern Baptist Convention could
take it. At least that's the story they
tell. I didn't tell the story. You go
look it up. And in that case, that
simply means this. They had to be on
guard. Now, they managed by the hair of
their chinny chin chin to save their
church from that kind of takeover. But
so you think that the world the only
problems we have are these little
things. Johnny doesn't like Sandy. Big
deal. You know that's not our big
problems that that have to be. So you
have to have a little grid under you to
be able to handle this and recommend men
that would be like that. We need men of
God. There I said it. That's what we
need. We need men of God. That's it.
Nominees need to be men of God. Uh Jay
Oswald Sanders wrote this. Give me a man
of God, one man whose faith is master of
his mind, and I will write all wrongs
and bless the name of all mankind. Give
me a man of God, one man whose tongue is
touched with heaven's fire, and I will
flame the darkest hearts with with high
resolve and clean desire. Give me a man
of God, one man true to the vision that
he sees, and I will build your broken
shrines and bring the nations to their
knees. We just need men of God,
basically. And what we really need is we
need all of you to be men of God. We
need all of you to be women of God.
That's what we really need. We don't
need just special agents that do these
things. We if we had a church full of
everybody qualified to be an elder, that
would be a great church. Amen. That
would be a great church. How do you get
there? John Moore says in a song back in
1981, you get there through valleys that
nobody's ever seen.
That's how you get there. Through hard
valleys, hidden valleys. He wrote this
in a hidden valley just over the hill. A
young shepherd boy surrenders his will.
As he lifts his voice and praise to his
king, only the lambs will hear and
follow as he sings. In a hidden valley,
a leader is born.
No one looking on. He cares for their
needs. For he knows the one who tries
the heart and he's steadfast and content
just to do his part. In a hidden valley
that leader is born and he's faced the
fierce and he's weathered the storms. So
with humble heart and love for his God,
he becomes royalty with just a staff and
a rod. Hidden valleys produce a life
song. Hidden valleys will make a heart
strong. Desperation
can cause you to see that hidden valleys
turn shepherds to kings. Oh yeah. You
don't get here without trouble.
No man can be an elder who's a recent
convert, but you can't get to heaven
without being a convert. So if you're
here today and you haven't given your
life to the Lord, we want you to one day
be the elder and the elders what right
now we want you to become a Christian.
Repent of your sins, confess the name of
Christ, be baptized. Please, if you
haven't done so, let's talk to you. We
will help you through that process. If
you want to come even now while we stand
and while we sing.
