CH Spurgeon uh wrote, "Woman was not
taken out of man's head to be lowered
over him or from his feet to be trampled
on by him, but from his side to be equal
with him, from under his arm to be
protected by him, and from near his
heart to be loved by him." I think it's
it's important to recognize that wives
in and of themsel are essential. There
is no other way of looking at it. Wives
and mothers, this world does not exist
without you ladies. Period. There is no
future without uh mothers. Without
wives, there just no future of the
world. And from that perspective, it is
woman that brought the savior into the
world. And so literally through
childbearing
um all of mankind has been saved and
will continue to be saved in the sense
of continuing on. So a wife that is
godly is essential to a family that
would be a godly family. And it is
essential to make a man the man he
should be. You just about can't get
there without such a woman. And so it is
essential that you ladies think about
the things we'll be looking at tonight.
Particularly not even thinking about
becoming an elers's wife. Just strictly
these are the qualities you should see.
Now, while uh we're talking about this,
I get questions about this and so I need
to answer this. I'm not This is not all
there is to say on this subject, but let
me give you a quick answer to this. U I
need you to know why I strongly believe
this text is not a text on the
qualifications of a deaconess. I do not
believe that at all. I've been asked
that many times just like I've been
asked about whether or not women could
lead in services. I don't believe that
at all and I there are strong reasons I
don't believe that and I'd be happy to
talk about that at length if you need to
talk about that but I have no question
about that but I want you to get into
this point right now and that is the
qualifications of a deaconess is not
what's being discussed here um for
several reasons let me give you a few uh
female leading in worship is forbidden
1 Corinthians Ians 14:es 34-38.
She's not to speak. She's not to ask
questions during the assembly of the
saints. 1 Timothy 2:es 8-15, it makes it
very clear. She's not to teach or to
usurp authority over men in the worship.
And if you question whether or not
that's worship, you need to go back to
the very first verse. It talks about
what we should pray about. It talks
about who should lead the prayer. That's
verse eight. And it says men would lead
prayer, lifting up holy hands without
wrath and doubting. So it's no question
at all if you're honest with that text
what's being said. Now you wanted just
to believe whatever you want then we
don't need the scriptures anyway. So
female leading is forbidden in worship.
So how is a deaconess going to serve in
any other way than outside of the
service of the church? Well, if it's
that then every woman that serves as
deacon in that sense, right? Because
deacon s just really is a servant of the
church. Now the word used in this text
for the woman, right, is the word for
woman.
It literally means woman or wife. And
you say, well, how can it mean woman or
wife? Because there's no such thing as a
word for wife as opposed to woman or
woman as opposed to wife. There is one
word. That word is kune and it literally
means woman or it means wife based upon
the context of the text. That's the way
it always means. So it says a woman
which means a wife which fits the text
in the sense of being married. There is
one example of the use of the word the
feminine form of diacinos or deacon and
that appears in Romans 16 and verse one.
Phoebe is assigned that term. However,
that is not necessarily a title in that
text even, but rather a description of
who Phoebe was and what she was doing.
Just as we could go to 1 Timothy chapter
5, talk about the widows indeed who
served the church and then were
ministered to the church, ministered to
by the church. Even from Acts chapter 6,
we see that and they were there was no
such thing as social security back in
the day or any kind of Medicare. And so,
the church took care of the widows. And
so the widows who were very highlevel
servants of the church could be taken
under and be taken care of for the rest
of their life. And that's the ones that
would be put on the list. They had to be
about 60 years old to get on that list.
But in a very real way, they would be
servants of the church or diao. So
that's the reason for the use of the
term. But it doesn't equate to that
Phoebe was necessarily some kind of
officer because there's nothing like
that ever mentioned again. There is also
the the logic is mention uh missing from
this whole argument for a male deacon
would have um been more reheavily
regulated. Now I don't know if you
thought about this but God is very fair.
God does things very fairly. He does
things justly.
So if this is talking about a deaconess,
I want you to hear this. 1 Timothy 3
1-10.
There are 19 rules for becoming an elder
in that text. You got that? 19.
Right after that, it talks about
deacons. There are seven rules for
deacons, but that equates to an
understanding. So, this is a male who is
a deacon. If a woman is a deacon or a
deaconos, then you got to ask yourself
the question, why is it she only has
four rules?
That's not fair. Why would a woman only
have to have four rules and a man would
have to have seven if she's a deaconess?
That doesn't make any sense. That's not
fair. Why would a man have to be more
stringently faithful than a woman would?
That doesn't make sense. But it is
talking about his wife. I'll talk about
why that's important in just a minute.
Titus is not giving instructions on
Deaconesses. If this is such and since
Paul is consistent, we talked about this
this morning. 1 Corinthians 4:17, what
he taught one place, he taught every
place. He is consistent in how he
taught, right? We talked about that.
Then this is not possible. I want you to
take you now take your Bibles, turn over
to Titus. Look at Titus chapter 2. I
want to show you something because it's
really kind of neat and it shows you for
sure that whatever it's talking about in
1 Timothy 3 and verse 11, it's not
talking about a new uh order, a new
position. Listen to what it says. I'm
going to start in verse one and you stay
with me. But as for you, speak the
things which are proper for sound
doctrine. Verse two, that the older men
be sober, reverent, temper, temperate,
sound in faith, in love, in patience. By
the way, is being an older man a
position?
No, it's just an age thing. All right,
look at verse three. Now, the older
women, now pay attention. Use of the
word likewise. Remember what I told you
a couple of weeks ago? Paul uses the
word likewise. It doesn't always mean
what you think it means likewise, but
here it kind of does, but it just
basically is now talking about older
women now, like as in saying also. So,
the older women, look at the
qualifications, and you look at this and
then go back to our text and you'll see
this is almost an exact copy. It says
they that they be reverent in behavior,
not slanderers, which we're dealing with
tonight, not given a much wine, teachers
of good things. Now go back now and take
a look at our text. Our text is in 1
Corinth Timothy chapter 3 and verse 11.
Again, look at the order. Likewise,
these women must be reverent, not
slanderers, temperant, faithful in all
things.
If one's not a position, why is the
other one a position?
Rather, it is a quality that's being
discussed. It's clear if you're just
being honest. There's no reason to jump
to the other conclusion without further
uh information. Now, if we had a further
information where Paul had said, "Hey,
we need to do this." Then we do that. We
do it because it's in the Bible. It's
not in the Bible. So, as a helper,
Genesis 2 and verse 18. Now, I want to
talk about just this for a second and
then we'll get on to the lesson. So, as
a helper, which is what a woman is,
Genesis 2 and verse 18, which doesn't
mean a a weak thing that can't do good
for himself because the Holy Spirit's
called a helper. So it's as a helper,
it's reasonable, it's only reasonable
that the Lord when he's giving
qualifications for leaders of the
church, since this man needs to be
married, he has to be the husband of one
wife and he has to have children, it
only makes sense that such a leader
would have to have a good enough quality
of a wife to be able to do his job. He'd
have to have a certain level of quality
of children to be able to do his job.
That only makes sense. In fact, it only
makes sense that a leader in a high
position would have to have higher
qualities required of that. Like an
older woman would naturally have it. So,
a good man could end up being
disqualified because he does not have a
wife of the quality and the caliber that
he needs. And he could also be
disqualified if he doesn't have a child
or children, if you will, of a quality
and a caliber he needs.
That's the reason it appears where it
is. That's what I firmly believe. I
don't think there's an argument against
any of that that I just said. And if you
find a passage that says appoint
deaconesses, we'll start doing it next
week. All right. This is qualifications
for the wives of elders and deacons. And
therefore, it is critical. And this must
have such qualities as to be a good
partner in ministry and to demonstrate a
servant's heart to handle church
challenges that are going to come up and
the scrutiny of the congregation.
Believe me, you live in a fishbowl and
to be basically sound in your faith as
well and in your behavior. Imagine if
you were married to someone who doesn't
believe what we believe and we didn't
know that. Would you not want to know
that if they don't even believe what we
believe? Would you want them to serve as
a leader in a church and foster a
healthy family church culture? All of
that is essential. That's why we get
qualifications for the women in this
situation. So let's examine in this
basically the second edition of what
church leaders lives uh need to be
looked at. Uh, and it is important we
notice the word must.
Need to notice the word must. And we
need to notice three aspects tonight.
And there's a whole bunch of them. And
we're going to move through them kind of
quickly. But you need to pay attention
to the letter. I mean, the word must in
all of this. When we're looking at the
elders, when we're looking at deacons,
whenever the word must appears, this is
serious business. So, here we go.
Number one,
leaders lives must not be slanderers,
for that is being, and if I was going to
write it out further, I would have said
that's being other bad things as well.
What kind of other bad things? It's
being a sinner. I think you need to
understand slander is a sin.
What? What? This is not I've seen people
who think these this talking bad isn't a
bad thing. I don't know where people get
that idea that it's okay. So likewise,
their wives must be reverent, not
slanderers. That's a direct command. Do
you know what the word for the slanderer
is here? Diablos. You ever know any
Hispanic language? You know what Diablo
is there? It's a A slanderer is an
accuser. Yes. But a Diablo or Diablo is
to be the devil.
That literally means his wife is not to
be the devil to bring charges usually
with hostile intent upon someone. It's
to be like Satan. You say, "Well, I
don't think that's appropriate to say
that." Well, then Matthew 4 and verse
one shouldn't have used the word it did
for the devil there because that's the
word it uses in Matthew 4 and verse one
for the devil. So, the devil is a
slanderer. And so you need to understand
since this is wrong. 1 John 3:4
sin is a transgression of the law. So
this is sinful.
I don't want you to have any doubt
whatsoever.
If you are a slanderer, you are a
sinner. And it is a sin to slander.
Secondly,
one other bad thing you become is a tail
bearer. Scriptur is very clear.
Leviticus 19:16, "You shall not go about
as a tailbearer among your people, nor
shall you take a stand against the life
of your neighbor. I am the Lord." Quit
telling stories on each other. Amen.
Don't tell stories. Don't take story. I
don't care if they're true. You said,
"But it's true. It doesn't matter. It's
not your place to be telling everything
about everybody." Amen. Amen. Pauls.
Stop talking about it, people. You got
no business talking about other people's
business. A whisperer. Proverbs 16:28. A
perverse man sows strife and a whisperer
separates the best of friends. It's
divisive to say, "Did you hear? Did you
hear what? Did you hear what they said?
Do you hear what they did?" You're being
divisive. Do you not know that? If you
do that, that's wrong. We aren't to do
that. We're to be better than that, a
busy body. So, one of the things more
that you are 2 Thessalonians 3 and:1,
for we hear that there are some who walk
among you in a disorderly manner, not
working at all, but are busy bodies.
What is a busy body? 1 Peter 4:15, as a
busy body in other people's matters.
It's a nosy individual, not just wanting
to know what's going on in your life,
but talking about it.
That's one reason Facebook is wrong.
Talking about stuff that shouldn't be
talked about. 90% of what's on there is
stuff that ain't got none of nothing to
do with you. You shouldn't know it. You
shouldn't be sharing it. You shouldn't
be spreading it. And your business is
not everybody else business. So, quit
telling everybody what your business is.
That's your business. Keep it to your
business. Don't be a busy body in other
people's matters. If they don't ask you
in, let me tell you one of the mistakes.
People come to me sometimes, brother and
sister so and so are having marital
trouble. You need to go talk to them. I
am not doing that until they've told me
that you're talking about I'm sticking
my nose into their business. My friend,
you have to be invited in. You think
that you could stick your nose into
somebody's business when you don't have
certainty that they're doing something
that they're not. You don't know it.
It's just you're nosy telling me what I
ought to do. You need to be more careful
in that. You can't do that kind of
thing. You can't go run around and start
sticking your nose. Imagine this. I
heard that this congregation over there
is having problems. So, I'm going to go
over there and sort it out. No, you're
not. You better keep your nose out of
their business.
That's being a busy body. You don't do
that kind of thing. We need to grow up a
little bit. A gossip. Now, there are
people who don't think gossiping is
wrong. Listen to this scripture. 1
Timothy 5 and verse 13. And besides,
they learn to be idle, wandering about
from house to house, playing video
games. And not only idle, I threw that
other part in there. And not living in
their mother's basement. And not only
idol, we don't do that in Florida.
Nobody lives in their mother's basement
in Florida cuz nobody has a basement.
And not only idol, but also gossips and
busy bodies saying things which they
ought not. Gossip is si N.
quit justifying it. So it's not just
leaders wise but leaders and not just
them. All of us must not be slanderers
for that is being
other bad things as well. When you are a
slanderer you are guilty of other bad
things as well.
Number
next,
I can't count that high. Number two, I
guess
leaders wives must not be slanders for
that is like being. It is like being
other bad things. So, not only is it
other bad things, it is like being other
bad things as well. A backbiter is what
it is like being. Why do I say that?
Psalm 15:3, "He who does not backbite
with his tongue, nor does evil to his
neighbor, nor does he take up a reproach
against his friend." To backbite is it's
actually a common term. People don't use
it as much as used to. It used to be
more common in society to call a person
a backbiter. Now, have you ever been bit
by anything? Even a mosquito doesn't
feel good, does it?
You don't want to be bitten by anything,
but you really don't want to be bitten
from the back like an animal
is hurts. And so what it's talking about
to say things behind your back to hurt
you.
That's what it's like. It's also like
being a rebel. Jeremiah 6 and verse 28,
they are all stubborn rebels walking as
slanderers. They are bronze and iron and
they are all corruptors. So here it is.
If you are a slanderer,
you are uncontrolled
and you will not be controlled. You are
a rebel in your attitude. Nobody's going
to tell me I can't say. Well, yeah,
somebody can. His name is L O R D. He
can tell you not to do this. He has full
right to say don't do the slandering
thing because when you are a slanderer
you are a rebel against the Lord. It is
also like being a blasphemer. Now you
might not have put blaspheming with this
but that's exactly what it is. Acts 6
and verse 11. Then they secretly
introduce men to say, "We have heard him
speak blasphemous words against Moses
and God." Moses,
listen to me. When you talk bad about
your brother or your sister,
that's blasphemy.
I thought it was when you said bad
things about God. Yeah, it is when you
speak bad about God. But when you make
light of good people
and you tell something on a good person,
it doesn't matter if it's true or not.
You just made them sound like they're
wicked.
Uh-uh.
Uh-uh. We
aren't to do that. Now, we may have all
done it, but we aren't supposed to do
that. Amen.
We don't do that. Blaspheming. You just
blasphemed your brother. It is like
being an evil speaker. James 4:11, "Do
not speak evil of one another, brethren.
He who speaks evil of a brother and
judges his brother speaks evil of the
law and judges the law. But if you judge
the law, you are not a doer of the law,
but a judge. You made yourself into God.
You have no right to judge your
brother." So, you start speaking evil.
When you say evil things about a good
person, imagine what that God might
think about that. You've decided that
your your brother, your sister is evil,
and so you you feel justified in
slandering them. Be careful. You're not
the judge.
And it is like being a defamer. 1 Peter
3 and verse 16, "Having a good
conscience, but when they defame you as
evildoers, those who revile your good
conduct in Christ may be ashamed." So,
you basically can ruin someone else's
reputation.
Imagine that.
I'm going to talk a little more about
that in just a minute. But imagine if
you managed to ruin somebody's good
reputation by some little thing you
thought, "Ah, it's nothing. Ah, it's
nothing. Gossip's not a bad thing." But
if you ruin their reputation, then you
ruin their testimony. You ruin their
witness. You ruin the opportunity they
have to reach somebody. If you start
talking bad about somebody, you ruin
their reputation. So it's not just
leaders wives but it's leaders but it's
not just leaders and leaders wives. It's
not just them. It's all of us must not
be slanderers for that is like being
other bad things is what it's in the
category of.
Thirdly,
leaders lives must not be slanderers for
that can lead it can lead to being other
bad things. So it's like being other bad
things. But if you're not careful
because when you sin one way, you tend
to sometimes court another sin and then
it can lead to other sins. And here's
some sins that are very, very, very
serious
that it can lead to a false reporter.
Exodus 23:1,
"You shall not circulate a false report.
Do not put your hand with the wicked to
do an unrighteous witness." Imagine
lying in a court of law.
Listen to me. You don't have to go into
a courtroom. The judge is always
present.
It is
capable that if you start slandering,
it'll lead to being a malicious witness.
Woo.
Deuteronomy 19:16, New American Standard
says, "If a malicious witness rises up
against a man to accuse him of
wrongdoing," what is malicious witness?
It's one doing it spitefully to harm.
It's not looking for the truth. Not even
interested in it. All it's interested in
is being malicious,
hurting them. You say, "Well, I can't
imagine somebody doing it." People do it
every day. Say things maliciously they
have no business of saying. They know
nothing of whether or not it's true or
not. Sometimes making it up.
A malicious witness.
And it can lead to being a false
witness. Very similar. Not exactly the
same thing. I'll explain why. Psalm
27:12. Do not deliver me to the will of
my adversaries. For false witnesses have
risen against me as such as breathe out
violence. False witness in a court of
law in Jewish court. Here's what happens
to you. If you're found to be a false
witness, you don't get charged with
perjury.
You get the penalty that they would have
gotten.
So you accuse them of murder
and a murderer would be put to death and
they prove that you were lying, they can
put you to death for that.
So when we think this is mild stuff, we
are wrong. This is not mild stuff and
this is what it leads to and it's bad.
It's way worse than perjury. And then
there is a malicious gossip. 2 Timothy
3:3 New America standard has it
unloving, irreconcilable,
malicious gossips without self-control,
brutal haters of good. This is in that
list of things that will happen in
perilous times. Talking about the world
we kind of live in. A malicious gossip
is someone who doesn't just have a
witness but tells everybody.
tells everybody in a spiteful way.
Everybody they can just talks to anybody
and everybody about it.
Uh we used to worry about the phone,
people talking on the phone. That's not
the way it's happening now. People are
texting and saying things between each
other that they have no business of
saying. And finally, an unjust accuser.
Third John 1:10. It can lead to being an
unjust accuser. 3R John 1:10. And the
New American Standard has it this way.
For this reason, if I come, I will call
attention to his deeds, which he does.
Unjustly accusing us. Imagine unjustly
accusing uh John, unjustly accusing us
with wicked words. And not satisfied
with this, he himself does not receive
the brethren either. And he's talking
about datrophies in that text. And he
forbids those who desire to do so and
puts them out of the church. accusing
John of almost criminal activity and
wrongdoing. So, it's not just leaders
wives that don't need to be slanderers.
That goes without saying after what
we've just looked at. You know, we can't
have that.
But it's leaders.
But it's not just leaders. Imagine if
the leaders just run around talking bad
about y'all after a meeting. We found
out sister so and so doing this and
everybody in the church knows it next
week.
And not just them, but all of us must
not be slanderers because what it can
lead to. It can lead to being other bad
things as well. Those are just examples
of what this leads to. It's not just
that it's wrong. It's because of the
fact that slandering is being other bad
things. It's not just being a slander.
It's being other things too. And it is
like being other bad things. And it can
lead to being other bad things. You
know, jobs in our secular world, even in
our secular world where I wouldn't say
that uh morality is a big thing in a
secular world, but jobs can be won and
lost over your reputation.
It happens a veteran ESPN on the air
talent, Rachel Nichols,
was planning to work uh as a sideline
reporter
uh during the 2021
NBA Finals.
Instead, she was replaced by another
reporter. The reporter that replaced her
was Malikica Andrews. Now, Nicholls was
sidelined by ESPN, and as far as I know,
I don't think she works anywhere in the
public now. I don't know if she still
works for ESPN, but I don't think I've
seen her reporting at all anymore since
that time, 2021,
because of comments she made.
She made it during 2020 at the NBA
Finals,
but she didn't make them in public.
She was on a phone call
and accidentally it was recorded. It
wasn't intentionally recorded. It's
accidentally recorded by a camera in her
hotel room which there was then not by
her permission. We don't know exactly
how this happened, but just recording
all that was going on. It was uploaded
to ESPN servers without her knowledge of
that. In the footage, she is heard
speaking disparagingly
about one of her co-workers. Her name
was Maria Taylor. Now, Maria Taylor
worked with her and Maria Taylor does
not work with ESPN. She now works with
NBC, but at the time she worked with
ESPN.
And this lady, Rachel Nicholls, implied
that Maria Taylor was chosen to cover
the NBA finals because, quote, she is
blacked.
She lost her position.
Should have.
When you start saying slanderous things
about people or situations and you know
nothing about what you're talking about,
you're inviting trouble for yourself and
other people as well. And chasening
others speaking uh rashly is what we
should all do. When you hear something,
one of your brothers, one of your
sisters says something, instead of
ignoring it, you need to chasen them.
Instead of going along with it, you
should say, "We should not talk that
way."
Amen. Walls.
Get a little backbone.
Grow a backbone.
Speak up. You shouldn't talk that way.
You ought to know better. You're a
Christian. They're a Christian. We don't
speak that way about each other. You
could ruin somebody. You could ruin
somebody,
not to mention disqualify yourself as an
elder or a deacon or an elers's wife or
a deacon's wife.
I'm going to tell you a story. This
happened about 10 or 15 years ago and it
happened here. So, I normally tell you
stories about what happened elsewhere. I
want to tell you a story about something
that happened here.
One of ours
was running down a preacher
and accusing them of something.
I know the preacher and I know the
preacher is not guilty of what they were
being accused of.
I was ugly. I got on to that person
harshly.
I don't know if that person's listening
now,
but I meant what I said. You got no
business potentially ruining the
reputation of a good person when you do
not know what you're talking about.
You have no business talking like that.
Cuz if you if it were to be found out
that everybody started believing that
and you ruined their reputation,
you're going to face the Lord over that.
It's not a joke. This is not minor. And
we cannot have elders wives slandering.
Just can't have it. So, not to mention
disqualifying yourself, but I just don't
want the damage that's done by what it
slander does. Do you do you want to be
slandered about? Would you like your
name run down? Would you like people to
hear things that you didn't do, but they
you can't? Once it's out there and
people believe it, what are you going to
do about it? You going to Nobody's going
to listen. Where's Where are you going
to have that? How do you protect
yourself against that?
Somebody decides that you've been
running around with another woman,
gentlemen. How do you going to fix that
now?
Or another man, ladies. How you going to
fix that? How do you fix that? If it
gets out here and somebody just saw you
one time kind of around them kind of
laughing together and all of a sudden
now you're having an affair. I heard it.
I know it's true. And you didn't hear no
such thing. And now what? What now? Or
about your children? I saw so and so's
kid over the other day drunk as he could
be.
How does that work?
Instead of talking to the person,
we tell stories,
right? We can't do that. They do that
out there. We don't do that. We talk to
the people that we think did something.
Amen.
&gt;&gt; And we deal with it person to person.
That's how you deal with stuff. So, are
you prepared to be judged by your words?
By your words, you'll be justified. By
your words, you'll be condemned. By your
words, you'll be justified. By your
words, you'll be condemned. By your
words, you will be justified. and by
your words you will be condemned. That's
not my words. That's Jesus Christ's
words. So you need to be careful what
you say. And so anybody that thinks it's
not important whether or not you're the
wife of a church leader be not a
slanderer. It's not just maybe. It is a
must. M must not. Now if you're here
tonight and you've been slandering,
maybe it's time to confess it. Wouldn't
that be amazing? Have you ever and I'm
going to tell you something. I have
never seen anybody come forward because
they
thought that maybe they said too much
about somebody else.
I think we have a problem with it.
If you need to come, the invitation is
yours. Why we stand and why we
