Now, not everyone
can be a elder,
nor should they even be an elder, nor
should they even try to be an elder.
I will never be an elder. That's left my
wife quite concerned. She always wished
that I would be, but I will never be
one. And it is because of the path that
I've chosen. I would never agree to be
one and be a preacher. I just wouldn't
do it. And that's always been the path.
And so it would have to be an emergency
situation and only for a short period.
But so some people just can't. And and
I'm one of them. So no man
gifted
to be a church shepherd on the other
hand can be a church shepherd forever.
There was a time in their life they
weren't.
And because of aging, there should be a
time when they're not again
simply because even the high priest gave
up being high priests.
That's how they ended up being two high
priests when Jesus is being um
crossexamined.
There are two of them that day, Annus
and Caiaphas, because one's retired and
can no longer be the high priest. that
happens. There's a story. It's quite
interesting. I'd never heard of it until
recently. It's Smith of Wooten Major.
It's Wooten Major because there's a
smaller town known as Wooten Minor.
I'd never heard of the story. It's a
Tolken story and but it's quite an
interesting. It's a short little story,
but it's really not a story. It is a
profound parable.
It's about
in the town where Smith was really
important. His job is so important
because he could make anything that
anybody really needed back in the
simpler days. And the other guy that was
really good was the cook, the baker,
because he could just about make
anything and save the whole group from
starvation. Turn something into
something that everybody could eat.
But every 24 years, they had this
special feast.
And in that feast, the baker would
always make a special cake. And the kids
loved it. It was like a big deal for
them. And they'd put these little things
in there. So there were like prizes, you
little coins and stuff that you cut your
piece of cake and you find it. It was
like a prize.
But there was this guy that was put a
star in there and they never seen that
before. And then somebody got the star,
but the star disappeared.
They didn't know what that meant. And
what had happened is one of the little
boys had eaten the star.
Then one day he finds the star in his
mouth.
It's crazy story. He he puts the star in
his hand and he instinctively touches it
to his head
and the star lights up.
And so he goes around and pretty much he
put the star away in the day because he
didn't want everybody to know. But he
was the star and he became the star
baker
and everybody admired him and he could
do things and he traveled to distant
lands, fairy lands and all kinds of
things. He had special oper operations
he could do, things he could do that no
one else could do almost like miracles.
And he went and saw kings and all kinds
of things.
Then later in life, after he had had
this wonderful life of doing all that,
the king, the secret elf king that had
given him the star, came to him and said
this,
"Do you think, Mr. Smith, that it's time
for you to give this thing, this magic
silver star up?"
And he says, "What is that to you, Cook?
Why should I so it isn't it mine? He
came to me after all. May or may not
keep the thing that's given to him.
The king says some things, those that
are free gifts and given for
remembrance, but others are not so
given. They cannot belong to a man
forever, nor be treasured as heirlooms.
They are lent. You have not thought
perhaps that someone else might need
this thing, but it is so.
Time is pressing.
There's a time
to give a thing up.
It's called aging.
It happens.
And it's a hard thing to accept. There's
a time when you're as strong as you
could possibly be and you're on the
field of athletics and you can do some
special things, some of you. And then
there's a time when you can no longer do
that.
There's a time when you master of the
business that you're in. And then there
is a time to let it go and someone else
take it on. That's the way it is to be
anything that is important, that's a
gift to you. Someone else now needs to
do it later. Whether you're an elder, a
deacon, a preacher, there's a time to
take it on and then there's a time to
let it go. And it's hard to do,
but it's important. You see, because
even shephering is not the easiest job
in the world to do and not everybody
should do it and the ones that do it
should not keep it forever and it's a
hard thing to accept. Believe me, I'm
right there on the borderline. I know
the concept very well.
Shepherds are honored in scripture as
good and wise men all through the
scriptures. How far back you heard of
Abel? He was a shepherd killed by his
brother. You well know Genesis 4. All
the patriarchs,
all the patriarchs were shepherds. All
12 of those men were shepherds. Moses
was a shepherd. It's where he met his
wife. David was a shepherd
and a one that wrote this text that we
have today. The God of Israel calls
himself in this text a shepherd. The
Messiah calls himself the good shepherd.
Shepherds are everywhere in scriptures.
They're at the birth of Jesus. They're
everywhere. This idea that shepherds
being something we don't know about is
often true in our society, but it is not
true in the Bible. Now, we may think we
see Psalm 23 perfectly clearly. It is
often thought that this is a psalm that
when David was young and he was laying
back in the field and he thought all
about this and he contemplated this
whole psalm when he was young. That's
not the case at all. If you're really a
scholar, you know that this was written
when he was old. In fact, it's believed
it was written when Abselum was
rebelling and it was one of the darkest
moments of his life. Now, imagine your
own sons trying to take the kingdom away
from you and trying to kill you.
That's when he wrote this psalm.
That's a different picture, isn't it? He
may have not been in the best of times.
In other words, like you may be at this
moment, but if you're going through
difficult times, this was written just
for you. If you got a problem in your
life, this psalm is your psalm for the
most difficult times or or for the time
that you need to mature a little bit.
It's for facing battles that you do not
want to face. It's for carrying burdens
that you really don't want to carry.
It's for learning how the effective
shepherd shepherds you and then to learn
how to be an effective shepherd to
shepherd others who are going through
really hard things. That's why we need
shepherds in a church because people are
always going through really hard things
all around us. We may live in our little
bubble and we may forget that. We may
think, "Oh, this lesson is boring." and
I just don't like church. Okay, listen
to me. Church is not just about you.
It's about the people around you. And
you may not be going through trouble,
but the people around you are. About
eight or nine out of 10 of the people in
the room are going through something
pretty rough. And if you have a
brilliant day today, and it's all going
wonderful. Woo! That's great. So, you
just sing out, pray, whatever you got to
do. But they it's not necessarily today
about you.
Let's walk through what this great
shepherd does. Number one, the effective
shepherd is always pastoring the flock.
It says in verse one and two, the Lord
is my shepherd. I shall not want. Pay
attention to that. I shall not want.
That means I won't ever need anything.
He makes me lie down in green pastures.
I got plenty. More than I'll ever be
able to eat. He leads me beside the
still waters. More than I'll ever be
able to drink. He has provided. It's
right there. The effective shepherd.
Here's the deal. Is always nourishing
the one that needs it. That's what your
father does for you. And you may be in
the middle of a hard time, but I want
you to know in the middle of your hard
time, he's feeding you. You're just not
paying attention. He's feeding you.
You're alive, right? You're here. You're
functioning. You're breathing. Breathe a
little bit more. You don't think you're
going to breathe the next breath if
you're in the middle of hard things. And
I'm telling you, you're still breathing.
You're still eating. You're still being
taken care of.
And shepherds have to learn to do that
for the hurting sheep, too. Number two,
the effective shepherd is always
preceding the flock. Did you notice what
it says in verse two? He makes me to lie
down in green pastures. He leads me. The
shepherds don't drive sheep. They walk
in front of their sheep and call to
them. Do you hear that? That's how he
lead. He leads me. He's out front. He
leads me beside the still waters. He
restores my soul. He leads me in the
paths of righteousness for his name's
sake. He is a guide to me. And you say,
"I don't feel the Lord's hand on me."
Let me tell you something. The Lord
never lifts his hand from you. You may
not feel it, but he is leading you. He
is out front of you, showing you the
path to take. Pay attention to it. It's
a shining path when it's from the Lord.
I promise you, just look for it. He's
leading you. And so, that's what a good
shepherd does. He leads the flock. He
doesn't follow the flock. He doesn't
wait for the flock to see, now where
would y'all like to go?
He leads it in the direction it needs to
go. Number three,
the effective shepherd is always
perfecting the flock, making it a better
flock. Verse three says, he restores
my soul. That means I need it restored.
He leads me in the paths of
righteousness. That means I struggle to
be righteous for his name's sake. Yay,
though I walk through the valley of the
shadow of death, I will fear no evil.
This I don't know, some people want to
separate all this out into different
parts, but this is just all about
shephering. If you know anything about
sheep, sometimes you got to go through
valleys and there's wolves, there's
lions, there's all kinds of animals that
want to eat them. They're on either side
of the valley looking down at the
animals. That's what's going on all the
time. And by the way, that happens to
you every day. And you know it. You have
people who want to do you in, do harm to
you, or things that are working against
you. For you are with me. He says, "Your
rod and your staff, they comfort me."
Here's the thing. It's always teaching
us and restoring us. That's what the
Lord's doing. You say, "Well, I don't
like the lesson."
Well, that's what learning is.
None of us like the lessons we don't
know. We like to hear the lessons we
already know because it makes us feel
smart. Oh, I already know that. I hear
him quoting that verse. I know that
verse. Yeah, cuz it feeds our pride. But
the lesson that we don't want to know is
the one we need to know.
That's the problem. To get to
righteousness, you have to admit, I'm
not as righteous as I could be.
I'm not the shining star in the room.
I could be better.
And I actually know a couple of things
that should be better, but I'm just
trying not to pay attention to it right
now.
Perfecting us. And then he restores my
soul. And if you're in the middle of a
really hard time, you know exactly what
that is because you feel empty. You
might have walked in this morning
feeling absolutely empty. That's the
thing to restore your soul. It's like
when you're wore out, mow your yard and
you're wore out and you're just like,
man, I can't go any further. Right? And
then
something you eat, something you drink,
and you're a different person
restores my soul. Number next,
the effective shepherd is always
protecting the flock. Verses four and
five says, "Yay, though I walk through
the valley of the shadow of death, I
will fear no evil, for you are with me."
And this is the point. A lot of times we
want to put the rod and the staff, they
comfort me because he corrects us and he
puts us in our place. That's not what
this is talking about. This is talking
about to protect you against the animals
who would kill you. A rod, a staff.
Yeah, I'll tell you that wolf would have
another thought. But verse five says,
"You have prepared a table before me in
the presence of my enemies." How many
times were they eating and there's a
wolf up on the hill?
There's a bear up on the hill watching
just waiting for you to not pay
attention. And let me tell you
something, that's always true.
There's always a bear on the hill.
And if you're not aware of that, you
haven't lived much life. You must be
young. You anoint my head with oil, my
cup runs over. There's always a warning.
See, shepherds give you a warning. It
lets you know cuz sheep, here's
something you may not know. Sheep can
only see about from here to the end of
the stage. Do you know that? They can't
see. They have terrible eyesight. That's
why they they go by their hearing.
That's where a shepherd calls them and
he knows their voice because they can't
see the shepherd. He's 100 yards away.
He doesn't know who in the world that
is. Like, I don't know who that is. But
up close, he knows exactly who you are.
Yes, but he knows you by your voice.
They can't see very far. Are you
listening? Sheep can't see very far
ahead of them.
They don't see very well. The shepherd
can see much further than the sheep. Are
you hearing me? The shepherd can see a
100 yards away. He can see two, three.
He can see a mile away. He can see
what's happening on that hill over there
three miles away. And the sheep's going,
"There's a hill.
That's where you are protected.
But that's the reason the shepherd can
give you a warning. And that's the
reason often in church members don't
understand when shepherds are giving
warnings cuz y'all aren't looking at
that. You're looking at your navl going,
"Yeah, I got a big belly today." That's
it.
And they're trying to see something over
there that you don't want to get a hold
of.
But number next,
the effective shepherd is always
preparing the flock. He's always
preparing the flock. It says in verse
five, you prepare a table before me.
That's ahead of me, by the way. I wasn't
there. And you prepared it. You prepare
a table before me in the presence of my
enemies. You anoint my head with oil. My
cup runs over. Surely goodness and mercy
shall follow me all the days of my life,
and I will dwell. This is the future. I
will dwell in the house of the Lord
forever. That's pretty much in your
future. That's what he's talking about.
So, a good shepherd is preparing what's
coming, not just what's happening,
right? It's preparing us for what's
coming. We tend to want to live in the
here and now, don't we? I got troubles.
And here's the way we are. Have you
noticed that we'll pray and it's all
life and death today.
Well, we were that way yesterday. We
survived yesterday. How'd we get through
yesterday? Cuz it was life and death
yesterday. And last month it was life
and death. How did we get here,
right?
But our shepherd was preparing
ahead of us and we made it here.
We need to start in the middle of our
trouble believing we're he's taking care
of the future far as right now.
Last point,
the effective shepherd is always
pursuing the flock. This is I I made a
point about this in a sermon here
recently. I don't know if you heard it,
but it's the word for follow me. It
says, "Surely goodness and mercy shall
follow me all the days of my life, and
I'll dwell in the house of the Lord."
It's it's actually the word uh follow is
a weak word to use here. It it's really
strange that they use the word follow
because it means to pursue as in
hunting. It means to pursue as if you're
going to war. It it's what uh Pharaoh
did to uh Israel as they were going
through the Red Sea. He pursued them.
And so it's like he's after you. And
he's saying that he will make sure if
you get in a mess, he's there.
He will follow me all the days of my
wife. He's seeking you. Even when you
wander away. Oh, absolutely.
The Lord's seeking you. I have been in
such a mess before that if the Lord
hadn't sought me, I wouldn't be here
right now. This is honest truth. The
Lord sought me and I don't know why.
He had no reason to except his love
because I wasn't in the mood to love him
back.
There it is. The effective shepherd is
always pastoring the flock, preceding
the flock, perfecting the flock,
protecting it, preparing it, pursuing
the flock. These things are all great
and wonderful and there are good things
and effective shepherds do these for the
flock. But here's something you need to
learn. And I know I'm going to kind of
shift gears again. Here it is. And that
is
I'm sorry.
They'll never be what you want them to
be.
You say, "Well, how can you say that?"
Because already you're that way about
God.
God's let you down so many times. How in
the world are y'all even believe in God?
That's how you kind of think sometimes,
don't you? How did he allow brother so
and so to get cancer, sister so and so
to die? How in the world could a good
God allow such things as this? Hey, I I
don't even know if I believed any right.
Don't you tell me you hadn't thought
things like that at some point in your
life.
Might be thinking them right now if
you're going through a hard time.
Yeah. Yeah.
Here's the truth. The best shepherd in
the world can't do everything for the
flock. And listen to this. and he
shouldn't.
The best shepherd of a church can't do
everything for the flock and he should
not.
And the idea that you need to be babyed
all of your life is a big mistake. If
you think everything needs to be done
for you and that that's the way we have
a great church, you are totally wrong.
You need to get over your babyhood.
Learn to change your own diapers.
That's right. Go to the bathroom. Go
potty by yourself.
Tie your own shoe. Change your own
clothes. One pant leg at a time. Right.
You think somebody needs to come and
dress you and make you feel good about
every little thing that happens at the
church and you are you insane? Of
course not. Now, why is that important?
How are you ever going to become a
shepherd?
To become a shepherd, you got to do it
for yourself. The sheep ain't doing
nothing for that shepherd. A sheep ain't
coming over there and says, "Well, I
know what it's like, shepherd.
Feel sorry. Bye. I know it's bad."
They ain't helping. They're doing
anything for the shepherds. Have you not
noticed that? They don't do anything for
the shepherds except grow their wool and
he cuts that up or feed them if they get
really hungry.
When a baby giraffe is born, here's what
happens. I'm going to talk to you about
baby giraffes,
butterflies, and a tree. Okay? So, baby
giraffe's born.
You know what he does
when that baby comes out? I don't want
to get too explicit here. He drops about
10 foot on his back or his head. Kaboom.
That's what happens to a baby giraffe
every time they're born. And when that
happens, it just lays there for a
minute. And the mom looks down, way
down, bends down, looks at it, maybe
looks a little bit, moves a little bit,
and it does this.
That's about all he does for a little
bit.
So, you know what the mama giraffe does?
Kicks.
Now, I'm not kidding. Now, giraffe can
kick and kill
a lot of things. He can kill a lion with
one kick. Definitely kill you and me.
one kick and it's not that kind of kick,
but it's a kick and it moves that baby.
And so the baby starts and maybe gets up
on its legs and it's sitting there.
Well, that's great, but that ain't good
enough. We live in Africa where there's
lions everywhere. Something's going to
eat that baby.
Kicks it again. Waits a minute. Licks it
a little bit. Now it's fallen 10 ft.
It's had a rough morning.
It kicks it again. Smells of it a little
bit. So finally it starts standing up.
You ever seen this happen? This stand
up. Look like a table that's about to
fall over and and finally it falls over.
Mama kicks it again. I'm not kidding.
This is what happened. Finally stands up
and now it's up and it looks pretty
good. You know what mama does? Kicks it
over.
That's what she does. She knocks it over
after it learns to stand. Why? Cuz it's
got to learn to jump back up again. Cuz
it's got to learn to run right now. Not
next week. Right now. You know what you
need? Maybe you need a good kicking
from your shepherd.
And maybe that's the trouble you're
going through like David. Maybe David
was getting a good kicking.
Oh, I don't want to hear that.
Oh, I don't want to hear that. Don't you
teach that to me, preacher.
Exactly. Second little story I talk
about is a little boy. Little boy found
a little cocoon
and it was a butterfly cocoon
and the butterfly was starting to come
out. It's got a hole and it's starting
and he waits.
It's taking too long.
It's a little boy. They can't wait on
nothing. You know what I mean? I mean, I
was a little boy. I couldn't wait on I
can't wait on much now, but I really
couldn't wait on anything a little boy.
So, he decides, I'm going to help this
thing. It's taking way too long. So, he
gets a pair of scissors. Blunt in, kids.
Blunt in scissors. And he starts cutting
it. And he managed to cuts it cut a
little bit and it begins to wiggle out a
little more and then he he just gets
tired of waiting. He cuts the whole
thing off. And so now the butterfly is
out.
But it has crinkled wings
and it lays there.
And you know what? The wings never
straighten up.
It is the struggle of getting out of the
cocoon that creates enough pressure to
inflate his wings.
He has to go through the struggle. He is
not ready without it.
I don't understand this struggle.
Without the struggle, you never get the
wings.
Last story.
Y'all remember biosphere? Y'all remember
that
biosphere?
There was a biosphere one. It wasn't
called one. It was biosphere. And
there's a biosphere 2. And there's a
glass building out like Arizona or
something like that. And I don't know
where it was at. I never went. It seemed
like a dumb thing to do. People lived
inside of it for like a year or two or
three or five, whatever it was. It was a
long time. It didn't make any sense to
me, but they did. It was a scientific
experiment. And after about a year or
two in there, they discovered something.
All the trees started falling over. The
trees wouldn't stand up. Now, they
they're like they gave plenty of water
as plenty of sunshine and none of the
trees would stand up. As it turns out,
there is a type of material in a tree
that I had never heard of. And
apparently they had never heard of it.
It's called stresswood. Did you know
there was such a thing as stress wood in
every tree? It's not the normal wood.
There's a type of wood in every tree
called stresswood. The other name for it
is reaction wood. And it is essential
that the wind blow on that. So, as it
begins to stand up, the wind bends it
and it affects it reacts the stress wood
and the stress wood pushes it back in
place and it blows and the stress wood
grows and now there's more stress wood
and as it gets bigger there's more
stress wood and it grows bigger. But if
it doesn't get the wind, the stress wood
doesn't grow and the tree can never
stand up without wind. It is the wind
that fights against the tree. That is
what makes the tree.
Without the wind, there'll be no trees.
There'd be a long bush on the ground.
We need shepherds. Amen. We need good
shepherds. We need to recognize that
we're under the greatest shepherd of
all.
But we got to learn something. We got to
learn to be a giraffe.
We got to learn to be that butterfly.
And we got to learn to be that tree. At
some point, you got to quit blaming
everybody else for all your troubles.
At some point, you got to accept that
some of that struggle is essential for
you to become a man or a woman or a
godly teenager. It's essential. And as
much as I hate to say it, the troubles
we have seem to be so horrible, they may
be essential to our life. We without
trouble would never become the
Christians we could be.
And so while you're fussing about, well,
we need really good shepherds, and I
agree with that, to encourage us, to
kick us when we need it, but they also
need to leave us alone
and not do everything for us, not come
to our aid in every situation, and not
help us in every way. And so whenever
you need something and they're not
willing to do it, it might be the best
thing that ever happened to you.
If you're here today and you're maybe
mad at God because he hasn't delivered
on what you think he promised you, you
have this great expectation that ain't
happening. And it's great to have
expectancy, but you need to give up your
expectations. You have no right to have
an expectation of God because it may be
the struggle you're going through that
is the gift from the shepherd.
