Good evening, church. That'd be a good
scripture to memorize. I don't know if
y'all heard it lately,
but if you hear it often enough, maybe
you'll get it. Uh, I need to give you
the latest that I got on John Eldridge
from this morning that he woke up at the
hospital telling oneliners.
So, if you know John, that means he's
feeling pretty good. I mean, that's
pretty much what he does. Tonight our
questions are um why
do we trust the process of physical
recovery but resist the process of
spiritual rest? The second one if we get
to it, how often do people mistake
survival for strength? And third
question, what pain has never been
grieved and how is it still shaping the
soul? So, I had a bunch of uh cute funny
things to say and then I thought I think
for the time because everybody wants to
eat tonight. I'm going to try to make it
a little bit shorter. So, I've got one
for you. How do you make the number one
disappear?
You add G and it's gone. So, uh
that's great.
G. Okay. So number one, why do we trust
the process of physical recovery but
resist the process of spiritual rest?
That's our first question. And so look
at a couple of things here to think
about. One is uh we trust physical
recovery because of several things. One
is physical recovery. It's tangible. Uh
it's visible. It's measurable. You know
it when it's happening to you. You know
when you're getting rest. You know you
need rest. You know, if you don't get
enough rest, you will get sick. We're
all aware of that sort of thing. It it
gives us immediate feedback. When you
get a good night's rest, you feel better
and you get immediate feedback. So to
argue spiritual rest in comparison to
this, it's difficult. Uh second thing is
that uh we can resist spiritual rest
because it requires really letting go of
our our way we think and and wanting to
be in control and we have to surrender
our control to some degree to obtain
some spiritual rest. There's the fear of
the unknown. It's a little bit
unsettling. Uh we feel uncomfortable.
We're so into this u uh Puritan way of
thinking America is that uh we're evil
if we're not doing something almost. Our
culture makes us feel lazy to some
degree uh when we seek some sort of rest
even spiritual rest which is sad but uh
spiritual and soul rests are uh
important but they're not instant. You
don't get immediate gratification from
it. You take it, you don't see it. uh
there's no easy way of easing into it
because we simply our culture doesn't
trust it and we end up feeling quite
awkward with the idea even sometimes
believe it or not sitting and reading
your Bible almost feels like you're not
doing enough. That's where we actually
live and u it's sad but it is true what
I just said. Uh the next thing is is
spanning the gap spiritually to find a
way to have rest for my soul. Uh we need
to learn to recognize spiritual and soul
rest actually is essential. The Lord
gave the Sabbath of rest to the people
because uh he found that you need to
really not do much on the day you're
worshiping the Lord because it'll
distract you. And we now live in a
culture where all the stores are open on
Sunday and we are distracted. Uh being
intentional and choosing to know that
true rest will restore you spiritually
is an important concept that we seem to
be forgetting in our culture. uh to
incorporate even a gentle walk, not one
that you're just trying to lose weight,
but a walk or to listen to something as
simple as a biblical podcast uh is is
getting harder to incorporate into our
schedule because we think we got to be
busy about stuff that make a difference
and we don't think those things tend to
make a difference. But we need to
incorporate that and reframe your
thoughts. That means to not think that
what we think is productive is always
productive. that sometimes uh spiritual
insight is more productive than physical
accomplishments. And so we need to learn
that to see something clearer or to
understand a concept more wonderful. I
think this what what we're talking about
here is I think is one of the reasons
that people often don't go to Sunday
school. They think it's a waste of their
time. It's that culture we live in. Um
so healing our physical body is such a
blessing from the Lord. And it's a part
of this process that we're talking
about. Uh Psalm 6:2 says, "Have mercy on
me, O Lord, for I am weak, oh Lord, heal
me for my bones are troubled." And so
the idea of having spiritual healing,
okay, you may find that you you need
some spiritual rest to obtain some
spiritual healing and it makes a huge
difference in you. Uh Matthew 8 and
verse 16 says, "When evening has come,
they brought to him many who were
demon-possessed and he cast out the
spirits with a word and healed all who
were sick." And the idea that some of us
because of our emotional situations, we
could use some spiritual healing. And I
say some of us, probably most of us
actually need a little bit of that. Uh
the next thing I want you to talk about
just quickly is uh healing our spiritual
soul and giving us some rest even is a
greater blessing than physical rest. Now
that may not sound right. So you know
you need rest. You're going to sleep
tonight. Every last one of us, even if
you don't stay to sleep all night long,
every one of you plans to go to bed
probably tonight. And every one of you
going to take physical rest because you
know you need it. And yet, how often do
you think that you need some spiritual
rest? H, that's an interesting aside.
Psalm 41:4, heal my soul, for I have
sinned against you. My soul needs to be
healed. And by that, I need some time to
give it attention. We're doing that
right now. But I'm talking about in my
daytoday walk. And Matthew 11 28 and 29
says, "Come to me and I will give you
rest and you'll find rest for your
souls." That's promise of Jesus. So the
idea, if you don't like the idea of
spiritual rest, you may not like what
Jesus is teaching there, because he's
trying to give you spiritual
rest. Not something we talk a lot about,
is it? But it's important. So how do you
get it? One of the ways you get it is
passively. Look at some passive ways we
can get passively without doing
something because you think you got to
do something, right? Well, you can
actually get uh soul healing and soul
rest and soul strengthening passively.
You can passively accept God's presence.
Psalm uh Psalm 1st Samuel 30 and:e 6
says, "David strengthened himself in the
Lord is God." It doesn't tell us in that
text how he did it, but in 2 Timothy
4:17, Paul says, "But the Lord stood
with me and strengthened me." Here's the
truth. David didn't do it. He
strengthened himself in the Lord. The
Lord strengthened him. It is actually a
passive thing to be strengthened. Uh
passively accept a word of
encouragement. Some of the best things
that happen happen at church on this
subject because someone will say
something positive to you that you
needed or you'll hear a prayer that said
what you've been feeling or you'll hear
a song that'll give you what you need.
uh 2 Chronicles 32 6 uh through8
particularly it says then he gave them
encouragement saying be strong and
courageous and do not be afraid nor
dismayed uh before the king of Assyria
this is Hezekiah speaking nor before all
the multitude that is with him for there
are more with us than with him and
that's something to remember that's
absolutely a true there's always more
with us than there is with those who
don't serve the Lord. Verse eight, it
may not look like that because more seem
to not be serving the Lord. Verse eight,
with him is an arm of flesh, but with us
is the Lord our God to help us and to
fight our battles. And the people were
strengthened by the words of Hezekiah,
king of Judah. They didn't do anything.
They listened. And in that moment of
quiet listening, they were strengthened.
Acts 16:es 4 and 5, they delivered to
them the decrees to keep. This is going
back to the churches after they had the
Jerusalem conference. Verse five, so the
churches were strengthened in the faith
and increased in number daily. So you're
not doing anything right now except
listening. And that's a good thing to
do. And that's what I'm trying to
suggest that passively receiving
encouragement can make a huge
difference. Passively accepting a
promise to hope is an important thing.
Romans 4:1 17-22 I'll pick up verse 18
who contrary to hope it's talking about
Abraham to contrary to hope in hope he
believed verse 20 he did not waver at
the promise of God had told him he's
going to bless him and bless his
descendants multiply them as the sand of
the sea he did not waver at the promise
of God through unbelief but was
strengthened in faith giving glory to
God he became strengthened
by simply believing the promise that was
made. And then there's the passively
accepting others prayers. By the way,
other people do pray for you. You may
not be aware of this, but the elders
pray for you every week. That's right.
Every week. Well, your name might not be
specifically mentioned every week
because usually if your name's
mentioned, something specially wrong.
But you are being prayed for by them
every week. Ephesians 3:16
that he would grant you, this is Paul's
prayer for the Ephesians, that God would
grant you according the riches of his
glory to be strengthened with might
through his spirit in the inner man.
What did they do to receive that?
Nothing. It was a gift coming through
prayer for other people praying for
them. Colossians chapter 1:es 9-11 says,
"We do not cease to pray for you." This
again, Paul saying, "And to ask that you
may be filled with the knowledge of his
will and all wisdom and spiritual
understanding." Well, you he had they
had to study for that. Well, he doesn't
say that. Verse 10, "That you may walk
worthy of the Lord, fully pleasing him,
being fruitful." Now, this is the part
where you actually get active, being
fruitful in every good work and
increasing in the knowledge of God.
That's something you'd have to do, too.
Verse 11, strengthened with all might
according to his glorious power. That's
all an answer to the prayer and
passively accepting our own weaknesses.
In 2 Corinthians 12:10 says, "Therefore
I take pleasure in infirmities, in
reproaches, in needs, in persecutions,
in distresses for Christ's sake. For
when I am weak, then am I strong." So,
some of the best ways to be strengthened
is by doing nothing
or to receive a gift passively.
Now, that's interesting, isn't it?
Because we think everything's up to us
and we think we do it all. All right,
number n second question. That probably
didn't answer all that question, but at
least gave you something to think about.
How often do people mistake survival for
strength? This is a good question. Uh
mistaking survival for strength is very
common. Uh many endure trauma, stress.
In fact, I would have to say probably
all of us eventually endure some form of
trauma, stress, or grief and feel like
often when we're in the middle of that
that we are barely holding on. We tie a
knot in our rope and we feel like our
fingers are about to slip off the rope.
That's just the way it is. But others
observe that and see an ability in us
that persists and they think it's due to
immense strength on our part.
Usually not. So survival is often an
instinctual thing
while strength implies power, endurance,
and resilience and usually involves a
conscious choice to do a thing. Whereas
if you've suddenly been thrown into a
situation that's stressing you beyond
your mind, you didn't plan that. You
didn't choose it. Wasn't something you
really wanted to do. So observers see
you enduring great hardship and they see
you functioning through it. Of course,
they don't realize you aren't really
functioning. They don't realize that you
are barely putting one foot in front of
the other. In fact, you'll mismatch your
socks. You don't know what you're doing
sometimes if you're under enough stress.
And yet, others will see you and think,
"Oh, they're doing great." And you're
going through an internal suffering and
a lack of choice.
And if anything, rather than feeling
stronger, you feel guilty a lot.
Observers don't see the internal guilt
and the internal shame for how poorly
you actually think you're handling and
coping with what you're dealing with. Uh
you the exhaustion alone makes you feel
like all I'm doing is barely holding on.
True resilience is adapting and growing
beyond survival mode.
So it's common to admire the unwavering
resolve without acknowledging the fact
that the person that's enduring that is
about the breaking point themsself and
they're trying to rebuild internally
with what's happening. So if you're
taking care of someone and they're about
to die,
you're barely surviving.
Mistaking survival for strength is
confusing
because a forced instinctual response
with a deliberate powerful choice is
actual where the strength is. If you
make a deliberate choice to take on the
project, that's strength if you can
endure that. But if you're just enduring
what just hit you, your wife is ill,
your husband's ill, your child is ill,
that's not strength. That's instinctual
survival mode. And don't confuse the
two. But guess what? We all go through
it.
Survival
and surviving a terrible oral ordeal can
make us stronger, though. It can.
Doesn't mean that it will. Don't assume
because somebody's been through
something really hard, they are just
suddenly more spiritual than the rest of
us. That's not necessarily the case.
Sometimes see the exact opposite that
happens. Let me give you a couple
examples. Joseph, for example, I would
not want to have been Joseph's brother.
Think he's a bit of a jerk seemed to me
when I watch how he dealt with his
brother. But let me not use that word.
Let me just say I would see him as
difficult. He's young. His daddy thinks
he's the best thing on earth. And I'm
the other kid that his daddy doesn't
think is the best thing on earth. That'd
be kind of difficult. And if there's 12
of us looking at him, 11 of us, we're
like, I could live without him. And
that's what they started thinking. They
thought we could murder him. I mean,
think about that. Your brothers start
plotting to murder you,
okay? You're not a nice person if they
want to kill you, okay? To them. At
least to them. And so they ended up not
killing him. They sold him into slavery.
If anybody sold you into slavery, would
you consider them a nice person? I
wouldn't. And then there's those false
accusations that come from Piper's wife.
And then there's the years in prison.
And he's elevated to a position of great
power. And through all this, he later
sees all of his brothers in a very
different way. We have it in Genesis
45:5, Genesis 15:1, 19, and 20. He says
basically the same thing. you meant to
do me wrong, but God meant to accomplish
good and saved many people alive. So
that's what he says. So his survival
made him actually more spiritually
strong because it helped him see a
bigger thing.
But don't think everybody goes through
that. Don't think everybody that goes
through a really hard time all of a
sudden sees with greater maturity. No,
that's not true. That doesn't happen.
Let me mention a really good one. Israel
Israel in Numbers 14:22-23
had been through slavery, 400 years of
slavery, right? You would think 400
years of slavery and you'd be a
spiritual giant. They were anything but
that. Not at all. They barely believed
at all. And you would think, well, they
went out and they went through the Red
Sea and then they went to Mount Si and
they see all the food dropping out of
the sky and they see all the miracles,
everything making it possible. But I'd
say that's kind of like hot house
Christianity. A lot of people think
because they've been through a lot of
stuff that now they're grown. Mm- They
weren't at all. So Numbers chapter 14,
they get to land of Canaan and God's
ready after one year prepping them to
take them on in. But they weren't ready.
They looked and they saw giants and they
said, "We can't do this. We can't do
this." Well, they were right. They
couldn't. And God didn't let them try.
You don't believe that I can do it? Then
you're not going to do it. So, they were
really weak.
In fact, it says that they rebelled 10
times by that point. I want you to think
about that. In one year, they' rebelled
10 times and trying to throw off Moses
and go back into slavery. Now, think
about how sad that was. But now, I'll
show you one another one that doesn't
look so good. Let's look at Jonah. Look
at Jonah. I mean, I would tell you, you
would think that Jonah would be a
spiritual giant by the end of the book
of Jonah because Jonah turns away from
God at the beginning. He doesn't want to
do what God says because he doesn't like
those denovites, right? He's thrown in
the belly of the fish. You would think
three days and three nights in the belly
of the fish. If hardships made you, if
trauma made you a spiritual giant, he
would have come out of that fish just
glowing. I mean, he'd have been a
spiritual giant. But what it was is he
goes and he preaches and you say, "See,
converts everybody." Oh, what a great
man. He didn't want to convert them. He
wanted them all to die. And at the end,
he's sad because God's not going to kill
them all. Instead of him growing through
that, he almost looks weaker at the end
than he did at the beginning.
Now, he wrote the book probably, so he
did learn, but at first he wasn't doing
so well. So, growth through trauma still
does happen or growth through hard times
still does happen. James chapter 1:es
2-4. My brethren, count it all joy when
you fall into various trials. Yeah, just
want to dance because everything's going
wrong. No, but listen. Verse three.
Knowing that the testing of your faith
produces patience, but let patience have
its perfect work that you may be perfect
and complete, lacking nothing. In most
cases, it will help you to grow.
I'll just tell you.
We saw Lois pass in our house and then
we saw Mel pass in our house.
We were barely surviving.
There wasn't growth out of that.
Number three,
what pain has never been grieved and how
is it still shaping the soul?
Pain unagnowledged or suppressed or kept
silent and not processed becomes a
permanent wound that shapes our soul.
Whether you want to admit it or not, it
does. There are a lot of unspoken
pains.
Rape,
incest, abuse. There are many that
nobody talks about.
Some of you been victim of that and may
have never told anyone.
It can lead to a feeling of
meaninglessness about your life,
lasting distress,
blocking any kind of personal growth
that you're going to have. You may be
stunted for life to some degree because
you just have never processed it. You
haven't been able to go to spiritual
maturity because you've never even
brought the subject up and you won't
read up on it even. Deep spiritual
suffering that goes unexpressed, unseen,
or is actively ignored, particularly
when the whole family kind of knows it.
Nobody ever talks about it, but they
actively suppress it ever being
discussed.
They assume you're fine,
but that assumption further isolates you
from any sense of connection.
Pain, disbelieved or misunderstood,
makes their feelings seem valid.
So pain or grief not fully processed
doesn't really fade away. In fact, the
idea that grief fades away is kind of a
childish view of suffering for for
mourning someone. Because if you really
love someone and they pass away, do you
not love them now 30 years later? Do you
not if you talk about them 40 years
later not suddenly become very sad?
The idea that you ever really fully get
over any real terrible pain is silly.
You don't fully you just get where you
can function and you can go on without
bringing it up at every turn. So not
fully process if you if you act like we
are to just leave all of those memories
in the past. What happens is when they
come out they come out and you're like
what's going on? Even you will be like
what's going on inside of me?
So sometimes an appropriate period of
grieving is forced.
What is the appropriate period of
grieving?
I'd like you to tell me if you got the
number when you get this lesson's over.
Come up and tell me what you think the
number is and I will disagree with you.
Somebody needs to tell you you don't
know what you're talking about
 because there's no
such thing.
Failure. The failure to grieve pain
healthfully significantly will impact
your soul in ways that you might not
have thought about. And if you've been
stuffing stuff in,
it becomes a chronic burden.
Oh, you still think about it.
It hinders healing and growth. You're
not going to become the person you could
be.
It leads to irreconcilable distresses.
Yeah. you can't fix them. If you won't
deal with it at all, you can't fix
something you won't deal with.
It stifles empathy and connection. So,
you may not have the relationship with
your mate or with your children or with
your parents or with somebody you work
with because you've never learned to
deal with the thing that's grieving you
inside and you won't deal with it.
It transforms scars
without strength.
It's fine to have scars if the scars
bring strength, but if you don't ever
bring them up, then it's going to be
points of soreness. It leads to an
isolated and unfulfilled soul, which
sounds really sad, doesn't it?
So the Bible, let me move quickly
because I know y'all are hungry from
the Bible not only expresses pains
and and this would be Can I encourage
you to read up a little bit on Judaism
on the subject of remembering pains?
You'd be surprised. I think you'd be
surprised what you will discover there.
But uh
they're remembered very religiously.
Some of you think that the best thing to
do is forget things that have been done
wrong.
You need to quit bringing that up kind
of thing. You may be right. It's a good
possibility you're wrong.
Individual laments are in the
scriptures. Look at the references in
Psalm alone. I don't have time to read
all that. 37 13 22 38 42 64 69 142. If
you think the Bible's not full of the
idea of personally lamenting what's been
done to you or what's gone wrong, you
haven't studied the Bible very closely.
Individual laments are in the
scriptures. But then there are communal
or or group laments. Look at Psalm
44747983.
They're group. Have you heard of the
whailing wall?
What do you think they do there?
They Well,
guess what? They believe in remembering
what's been done wrong to them. You say,
"Well, that just doesn't sound Christian
to me." No. What that is is you don't
understand the principle of why it's
important to remember what's been done
wrong to you.
What I was always taught you forgive and
you forget. Well, you were probably
taught wrong.
It isn't significant to forget because
here's what your brain won't do. It
won't ever forget. The idea that your
brain can forget something only happens
with an aneurysm or a stroke.
And it's not funny.
You don't want that to happen.
Do you actually think that an infinite
God that knows everything can forget
anything?
The idea, it's actually silly. God
forgets it. No. No. More than you can.
Oh, but I I've always been taught God
forgets it. He's He's can do anything,
so he can forget it. No, he can't. And
the scriptures are full of the teaching
that he hasn't. It's called the Bible.
The Bible is a remembrance of all that's
occurred. What do you think it is? Do
you think there's no record of sins in
there that were forgiven? Have you read
about David?
Have you read? His adultery could be
discussed in heaven 45 billion years
from now because the word will always
be. It's eternal.
God will remember and so will you and so
will David. Lament, there's a book about
it. You should read it sometimes.
Lamentations from the book of Jeremiah
or from Jeremiah. Lamentations 3:19-22.
Remember my afflictions and roh roaming
the wormwood and the gall. My soul still
remembers and sinks within me. That
sounds horrible. Yeah. This I recall to
my mind. Therefore I have hope. Did you
hear that? I remember the bad things
that happened and therefore I have hope.
Wow. Verse 22. Through the Lord's
mercies, we are not consumed because his
compassions fail not. You need to
remember the bad things and how God
rescued you from the bad things. Now,
you begin to understand why it's
important to remember the bad things.
Because God's rescued you from them.
There you go. Let me encourage you. So,
if you never studied this subject, let
me encourage you to go and watch some
videos. Okay? Go to YouTube, look up
Michael Card, and watch Lamenting is
worship and or watch the Lost Language
of Lament. I I will tell you that I
believe the African-American church has
done a far better job with this than the
predominant white congregations in
America. Deuteronomy 25:17 says,
"Remember what Amalecch did to you on
the way as you were coming out of Egypt?
Why are you bringing that up? We've
forgotten that. We've let that go." No.
No, no. There are things that need to be
remembered.
God does not forget completely. Romans
15:4, that's the reason he brings up and
says the things that were written a four
time were written for you alone. 1
Corinthians chapter 10, you remember
what they did wrong. And he lists about
10 things they did wrong and how many
died.
It's important actually to remember the
bad things.
That's going to sound wrong to those of
you who are reading most psychological
books today. Psalm 22 verse1. My God, my
God, why have you forsaken me? Why are
you so far from my from helping me and
from the words of my groaning?
Yeah. In Matthew chapter 18, I don't
know if you've paid attention to this.
We all pay attention to the part of
scriptures that mean stuff to us, but
when things kind of go away from what we
expect, then we tend to not pay
attention to that. But in Matthew
chapter 18, there's a guy that's
forgiven of this huge debt. You remember
that? Y'all remember that? He's forgiven
of this huge debt. Then he goes and he
throttles his friend for just a small
debt, about 15, 20 bucks, right? Y'all
all know that, right? When that's
reported back to his master, the master
does something that we just haven't
actually dealt with. The master decides
to unforgive him.
Okay, you study on that one a little
while.
Here we go. I'm almost through.
The Emperor's New Clothes.
Y'all have all read that, had you?
There's actually several versions out
there. The first one, I don't remember
who wrote it, but Hans Christian
Anderson in 1837 wrote uh one version,
and most of the versions we have today
are not exactly like his version, but
basically it's about this king who liked
really fancy clothes, right? And
finally, he got snookered by two guys
that were really, you know, they were
criminals really. They were trying to
make him believe that they could make
him clothes that only the really smart
people could see. And the people who
couldn't see it weren't that smart. So
you didn't have to respect them. So I
ended up making clothes, spending a lot
of time making him clothes that were
invisible supposedly. And they would
stand in the spittle and pretend they're
weaving and they weren't doing anything.
And he took care of them, fed them, all
of this. It was all a lie. Finally, he
put the clothes on
and made a parade through the town. and
only a little boy said,
"Where's his clothes?"
Sometimes somebody's got to ask the hard
and uncomfortable question. And I want
to thank everybody that's been doing
that because I don't know how to answer
some of these questions. I've noticed it
been hard and uncomfortable for me. But
one of the hardest and most
uncomfortable question is
uh have you obeyed the gospel? Is Jesus
your Lord? Have you repented of your
sins? Confessed the name of Christ? Been
baptized? If you haven't, let's help
you. Let us help you do that tonight. If
you need to come while we stand and
while we
