Picture
this with me if you will. Matthew
chapter 5. Jesus and his disciples are
within about a walk of Capernaum.
The air likely still smells of wet nets
and cooking fires. Word of John's arrest
has circulated and the mood is a mixture
of curiosity and caution.
Crowds of people surround them, locals
and some who have traveled in from
farther districts. Jesus takes a good
look out at the crowds around them. Then
he moves up slope so the sound will
carry. His disciples come to him to hear
another lesson.
But he does not start with a rousing
speech of victory.
He does not give a speech on how the
Romans would be conquered or how the
city of Jerusalem would shine forever.
He doesn't tell them that victory is at
hand if only they follow him.
Instead, he starts a paradoxical lesson
on loss.
And to teach this lesson, he does not
open with a parable because he is
surrounded by people very much like you
and me. And like us, these people stand
in as his illustrations.
What has gathered on this hillside is a
catalog of losses, missed catches, thin
purses, hollowed souls, frayed
reputations, unanswered ailments,
opportunities seated to the powerful.
Some have left livelihoods to be here.
Others perhaps have simply run out of
options. It is into this mixture of
subtraction that Jesus opens his mouth
not to offer techniques for clawing back
the greatness that was once taken from
them, but to forge new mental pathways
where loss becomes gain.
Jesus starts off this lesson by
explaining how to lose myself and win
himself.
Picture the hillside with me. Perhaps
there is a widow with red eyes, a father
who has buried a child, a laborer sent
home early, a tax collector everyone
avoids. Jesus looks at all of them and
calls them blessed.
He starts in Matthew 5:3 saying,
"Blessed are the poor in spirit, for
theirs is the kingdom of heaven."
Jesus intentionally uses a word here
that would bring to mind a beggar in the
street. He is saying that those who
acknowledge they are utterly bankrupt,
weak in their soul. Those to all
appearances possess nothing of worth to
bring their God. Those who are
completely dependent on his mercy like
the destitute who depend on others to
survive. These spiritually destitute
ones are fortunate right now to possess
the kingdom ruled by heaven. They are
blessed because they can easily abandon
all pretense of self-sufficiency,
of self-ruule,
of self- strength, and throw themselves
completely at the mercy of God to the
grace he offers.
Of course, denying yourself doesn't mean
hating yourself.
It simply means saying no to the self as
king.
So we can say yes to a greater one.
Jesus would go on to teach that if you
try to secure your life on your own
terms, you lose it. But if you entrust
your life to Jesus,
even if it feels like loss, you'll find
the lo the life that you actually need.
That loss of self-ruule is the very
heartbeat of disciplehip.
Some may see our spiritual poverty as
pitiful, but that is not how Jesus sees
it. When we lose our self-ruule, we win
his kingdom.
In 1 Corinthians 1, starting in verse
26, Paul mirrored Jesus' sentiment,
saying, "Consider your own call,
brothers and sisters. Not many of you
were wise by human standards. Not many
were powerful. Not many were noble
birth. But God chose what is foolish in
the world to shame the wise. God chose
what is weak in the world to shame the
strong. God chose what is low and
despised in the world, things that are
not to abolish the things that are. And
this culminated in 2 Corinthians 12:9
when Jesus said to Paul, "My grace is
sufficient for you, for power is made
perfect in weakness."
Some may see our weakness of the soul as
powerlessness, but that is not how Jesus
sees it. When we lose our self-reliance,
we win his strength.
Jesus continues this lesson
with an even more powerful paradox. In
Matthew 5:4, he says, "Blessed are those
who mourn, for they will be comforted."
His words here mean, "Fortunate and
honored are those who experience not
simply a private loss, but also those
who have lost so deeply, who have lost
so dearly that they've also lost
composure."
His word choice here would have spoken
to the crowds of someone who breaks down
in the kind of demonstrative grief that
their culture knew well.
It brings to mind the kind of sadness
that tears at clothing, that wales
aloud, that beats the breast, that sits
in ashes.
This is the mourning that makes one
vulnerable in a world that praises
emotional control.
Jesus is saying that when you mourn,
whether it's grieving your own personal
loss or the world's brokenness or your
own spiritual poverty, you are not
showing weakness, but participating in a
divine reality. Your visible
embarrassing composure losing grief is
not something that needs to be hidden
from God. And your grief is not a wound
to be miraculously deleted, forgotten.
Instead, it is a mourning. It is
something that receives heaven's highest
honor. And this comfort that is promised
you isn't the cold comfort of stoic
philosophy that says, "Death is natural.
Get over it."
nor is it bound by the time limits that
the laws or culture place on morning.
Instead, God himself will be your
comforter,
validating your tears rather than
rushing you past them, honoring your
breakdown rather than demanding you
maintain control.
Do we sometimes forget the scriptures
that openly express grief and
lamentations?
What about Psalm 6 that says, "I am
weary
with my moaning. Every night I flood my
bed with tears. I drench my couch with
my weeping. My eyes waste away because
of grief."
Or how about Psalm 42 that says, "My
tears have been my food day and night.
While people say to me continually,
where is your God?
Grief like these has been honored and
immortalized, not swept under the rug,
not discarded.
Sometimes I feel like we assume that our
grief is not worthy of God's comfort.
But that is not true. In Romans 8 verse
26, Paul says, "The very spirit
intercedes with groanings too deep for
words." Literally, the spirit takes hold
with us in our weakness. Let's not
forget that even Jesus himself in John
11:35 wept openly for Lazarus, even
though some of the people saw it and
would mock him for it. Even though he
knew that grief was going to be
short-lived,
mourning is not a sign of weak faith,
but it is a sign of faith speaking
honestly.
Over and over, scripture portrays God's
people bringing their pain and laments
to him, asking for help, and often in
the same breath, choosing hope.
Both silence and tears belong to the
faithful.
And when words fail, the spirit
intercedes with inexpressable groans.
practiced this way, lamenting becomes a
holy loss,
a relinquishing of our self-ruule and an
urge to control and contain ourselves.
These laments opens ourselves and open
up space to receive God's presence and
help. And in losing that control, we
often gain the courage to change, to
love, to praise him.
Some may see our mourning as shameful,
but that's not how Jesus sees it. When
we lose our self-composure, we win his
comfort.
It would have been a powerful enough
lesson if Jesus stopped there. But he
knew that we struggle with more than
just ourselves.
It's one thing to lose your
self-reliance, your self-ruule, your
self-composure, and quite another thing
to lose at the hands of another. So he
continues this lesson explaining how to
lose my vengeance and win his
inheritance.
I like to imagine on that hillside stood
a man with scarred knuckle knuckles, a
tight jaw full of zeal, a man who
settled many arguments with his hands,
but has come to learn a new craft from
the master.
The one who heals wounds with words.
Perhaps this is the kind of man Jesus
spoke about next in Matthew 5:5.
Blessed are the meek, for they will
inherit the earth.
The master is saying here that God's
blessing belongs to those who have
strength but choose gentleness.
Who can assert their power over others
but instead exercise patient restraint.
who respond to injustice with more
endurance than aggression, who mirror
the controlled strength of the Messiah
himself. They are the ones who will
receive the inheritance God promised.
Those blessed ones will possess not just
the land, but the entire earth.
Have you ever seen a family in mourning
that has to take a second blow of pain
due to greed?
When the estate is divided, sometimes
the family breaks apart, too.
We are all part of a world that says
might makes right. That what you can
take belongs to you. Even from the
playground, we are taught finders,
keepers, losers, weepers. We are
suddenly in countless ways told that we
must fight for what we want in this
world to scrape and claw to earn our
birthright. But Jesus is telling us that
if we choose to lose that honor duel, to
not rise to that bait, we will obtain an
inheritance, an enduring security
greater than anything we grab for
ourselves.
To those who have strength and choose to
lose the honor duel, the earth belongs
to them. Later, Jesus would expound on
this concept, teaching us to turn the
other cheek, to go the extra mile. Like
the Galilean forced by a Roman soldier
to carry his pack, we're supposed to
walk that second mile without complaint.
Jesus calls us to refuse the fight that
many would argue we deserve.
Instead, with each step, we go beyond
the minimum, and with each step, quietly
inherit the ground we walk on.
Jesus calls us not to stand our ground
for our own honor but to lose that duel
to inherit his earth.
In Luke 14 verses 7-11 Jesus also
entreats us to always take the low seat
instead of expecting exaltation and
praise instead of expecting to be
treated as special. Jesus wants us to
learn to choose to lose these constant
games of posturing and status. When we
feel provoked, we don't have to hit
back. We can choose a quieter option, a
calm, creative, non-escalation.
We can answer insults without returning
them. We can beat pressure with
generosity. We can go further than
required
on our own terms. We can take the low
seat rather than climb the ladder. We
can reframe the trap questions rather
than fighting inside them.
We can even wave the right to be
offended.
This meekness
is not passivity. It's disciplehip.
Meekness is a discipline. Meekness is a
hidden strength that helps us to protect
our integrity. Meekness helps us protect
our relationships. Meekness helps us
protect our homes. And according to
Jesus, when we choose to lose regardless
of our strength, it secures our
inheritance,
that enduring security that no earthly
institution can offer us. That is what
it means to be meek, to lose the moment
and win the world.
Being meek also means that sometimes we
intentionally lose our rights
for the sake of others. In 1 Corinthians
8:9, Paul calls to us. It says, "Take
care that liberty of ours does not
somehow become a stumbling block to the
weak." In 1 Corinthians 9, starting in
verse 12, Paul told the church that yes,
like other workers, they had the right
to accept the strength and the financial
support of their ministry, but they made
the deliberate choice to not make use of
that right. Instead, they chose the meek
route. At great inconvenience to their
ministry, they did not accept that
support because they did not want to
create even the smallest obstacle,
distraction, or roadblock to the hearts
and minds of those they sought to aid.
We may have the right to act, yet
meekness teaches us to say, "Not now."
When our freedom might confuse or hurt
someone, we are free to hold back.
People matter more than our personal
rights. So in meekness, we must take
care not to use our strengths, our
rights, our freedoms to win in the
moment because our inheritance is
already assured.
Some may see our meekness as weakness,
but that's not how Jesus sees it. When
we choose to lose for the sake of souls,
we win his inheritance.
In verse 7, Jesus continues this lesson
saying, "Blessed are the merciful, for
they will receive mercy."
Have you ever been at the end of an
argument, at the end of a lawsuit, at
the end of a relationship?
How did you handle yourself there at the
end? Did you give more than you needed
to? Or did you twist the knife? Did you
extend every mercy? Or do you live now
with regrets?
By using the word merciful, Jesus is not
just talking about those who feel sorry
for others, but those who actively
choose to make a personal sacrifice.
He's talking about those who choose to
take the loss, to take the hit for the
sake of someone who needs it more.
His
word choice here would have called to
mind in the audience a gut level
motherly compassion, a covenant loyalty.
To the audience, to be one of his
merciful ones is to live as a channel of
divine compassion. They will continue to
experience God's active rescuing mercy
as a result of that participation. But
is that us
at the end of our bitterest fights? Are
we extending the hand of mercy? are or
are we trying to get in that last word,
that last dig?
We need to be careful, church.
The world takes notice when those who
claim to follow Jesus are not merciful.
In 1 Corinthians 6:7,
Paul calls to them, saying,
"To have lawsuits at all with one
another is already a defeat for you. Why
not rather be wronged? Why not rather be
defrauded?
He's right.
There are times when a loss can be
sweeter than a victory in court.
When the issue is small, when we can
admit the real loss isn't money, it's
the trust or the pride that was bruised.
In moments like that, let's try to
settle things calmly.
We need to be a little more willing to
invite wise, neutral people in to help.
And if it still won't resolve, we can
choose to take the short-term hit for
the long-term good of that relationship.
It is not about tolerating abuse or
ignoring serious harm. Of course, when
safety or justice is at stake, we must
protect people and use the proper
channels. But in everyday conflicts,
let's value people over payback. Amen.
This is difficult for me, but sometimes
all it takes for mercy to reign in
situations is to leave room.
Paul wrote to the Romans in chapter 12,
starting in verse 17, "Do not repay
anyone evil for evil, but take thought
for what is noble in the sight of all.
If it is possible, for as it depends on
you, live peaceibly with all, beloved.
Never avenge yourselves, but leave room
for the wrath of God. For it is written,
vengeance is mine, I will repay, says
the Lord.
This idea about leaving room as mercy is
a bit of a foreign concept to us today.
It seems mercy and restraint is a bit of
an anathema to our cultural default
today. If you don't believe me, try
going to work tomorrow and suggesting
that your company leave room in the
budget for charities. or maybe suggest
you intentionally leave room in the
margins for your competition to grow.
To the Hebrews listening though, this
kind of mercy would be a little closer
to heart. They had a holiness law that
you can read about in Leviticus 19. And
that law told people not to reap the
harvest to the very edges of their
fields or to gather the gleanings. They
were not supposed to strip the vineyards
bare or gather everything from the
ground. This act was called pia or
simply corner named after the edges they
were to leave for the poor for the
travelers for the aliens from other
lands.
When Jesus says blessed are the
merciful, he's not talking about those
who push out to the edges grasping for
every spare measure of power or profit.
He's not talking about those who would
chase out the foreigner out of a
misguided vengeance. His merciful ones
do not hunger for their own vengeance,
and they do not vindictively strip the
edges clean.
His merciful ones will always leave room
for God to choose vengeance. His
merciful ones will always leave room for
others to live, to breathe, to move, to
flourish.
Some will see this mercy as naive,
but that's not how Jesus sees it. When
we choose to lose vengeance by giving it
to God, to leave room for others to
live, we win his mercy.
Jesus could have stopped there. But like
the rich young ruler, there's a little
bit more we need to lose. So he
continues to teach us how to lose my
pretense and win his presence.
I imagine somewhere on that hillside was
a young man who had learned the art of
being admired. But on this day, he has
swallowed his pride and has stepped
through the crowd to find his neighbor
he shorthanded.
Maybe he just couldn't sleep till he
made that situation right. To people
like this, Jesus speaks in verse six.
Blessed are those who hunger and thirst
for right f thirst for righteousness.
for they will be filled.
So let me ask you, have you ever lost a
friend?
Have you ever been in a long bitter
dispute? One that has gone on so long
and been such a struggle that it's all
you could think about.
It was like this gnawing emptiness
inside you where a good rel relationship
once lived. All food and drink has lost
its flavor. And all you wanted was for
that relationship to be whole, to be
reconciled, to be redeemed.
That's the kind of hunger and thirst
that Jesus is using here.
He's saying that blessed are you when
you continually hunger and thirst with
desperate intensity and of physical
starvation and dehydration for complete
righteousness. That is for personal
integrity that reflects God's character.
Yes. But it is also a need for right
relationships with those around us.
He is saying not only will you get what
you are starving for, but you will be
completely satisfied.
And it is because you did not give up
searching for that lost righteousness
that you will find an oasis and get your
fill.
In Matthew 6:33,
we are told to seek first the kingdom of
God and his righteousness, and all these
things will be given unto you as well.
That is to say that all our earthly
needs will come in due time if we just
keep searching for righteousness.
So yes, we are blessed when we are
starving for righteousness. It may hurt
now,
but it's a good pain to have. It's a
feeling that leads to happiness, and
we're supposed to lean into that, to be
filled.
Some may see our desire for
righteousness as self-righteousness, but
that's not how Jesus sees it. When we
lose our pretense of righteousness and
instead seek after it, we will win his
righteousness.
Jesus continues in verse 8,
"Blessed are the pure in heart, for they
will see God.
He is saying that those whose hearts
have been purified from all that divides
their loyalty, those whose inner being
reflects the wholeness of God's
character, those pure of heart will find
something that even the greatest, most
lauded priests have longed for.
to those who were not permitted to enter
the sacred places for being too dirty,
too outwardly impure. To even those who
have lost all but have put in the work
to purify their inner selves, he is
saying that since they have made their
heart a holy place, they will get to
experience the presence of God.
What does it mean to be pure of heart?
It means someone who has chosen to lose
all of their mixed motives. Their heart
is no longer full of trapped doors, no
dark corners, no snares for those who
might enter for a visit. An open heart
without deceit. That is a pure heart.
And when the mouth opens, the pure heart
shines out with honesty. A pure heart
won't say whatever it needs to to win
that next argument.
In verse 37, Jesus would say, "Let your
yes be yes or your no be no. Anything
more than this comes from the evil one.
Some will see a pure heart as a sign of
a simple mind. But that's not how Jesus
sees it. When we lose our deceit, our
pretense of outwardly perfection for
purity within,
that's when we win his presence.
If Jesus stopped there, we'd have a
great lesson. But as it turns out, some
of us still have more to lose. So he
goes on to teach us how to lose my fame
and win his name.
Everyone on that hillside likely knew
the greatest names in war. Even today,
we still remember Epiphanies, Pompei,
Alexander the Great. But it's
interesting to me how few of us might
know the names like Nansen or Bouet or
Ida Wells. There's always been great
fame to be had in making war, but
there's very little fame to be found by
making peace.
I imagine several unsung heroes were on
that hillside to hear Jesus's next words
in verse 9.
Blessed are the peacemakers,
for they will be called children of God.
He is saying that God's special blessing
rests on those who bring enemies
together, heal divisions in communities,
stand against oppression without
violence. Those peacemakers will be
recognized as God's own children.
See, they're following their father's
footsteps, bringing reconciliation and
restoration to a broken world. And
because they carry out their father's
work, they will be known as his
children.
Those who are mighty in military matters
can keep their fame. But when good
people choose to lose the limelight, to
lose the taste of victory for the
sweeter taste of peace, they get a new
distinction.
So what does peacemaking look like in
our daily lives? Later, starting in
verse 23, Jesus described it as rushing
to be reconciled to your brother or
sister. Quickly, trying your best to
deescalate matters before they get
serious, before you have to go to court.
When conflict finds us, we must pri
prioritize peace. We go in early, lower
the heat, listen well, own our part, and
look for simple, honest ways to repair
the relationship.
According to Jesus, it is so critically
important that if tonight one of us
realizes one of our brothers or sisters
has something against us, it's better
for us to leave now and address it for
the sake of that peace.
But what happens when we fail?
When peace cannot be maintained, what
happens when we strive to bring that
right relationship into this world and
the world rejects us? What happens when
we pursue peace and the world pursues us
back? What if we try to make peace, but
even in that struggle, we lose?
Jesus continues in verse 10, "Blessed
are those who are persecuted for the
sake of righteousness, for theirs is the
kingdom of heaven.
He is speaking of those who would choose
to lose the safety and comfort
and continue to bear the marks of that
persecution all for the sake of
righteousness. These are the ones who
receive favor and stand in an enviable
position before God. To them brings
belongs the kingdom of heaven. The whole
time Jesus has been using the word
blessed. He actually means happy here.
So he brings this message home on loss
in verse 11.
He says, "Blessed are you when people
revile you and persecute persecute you
and utter all kinds of evil against you
falsely on my account. Rejoice and be
glad for your reward is great in heaven.
For in the same way they persecuted the
prophets who were before you."
So we should consider ourselves divinely
favored and fortunate when people
publicly shame and disgrace us. When
they actively pursue and persecute us
like hunters after prey and when they
speak deliberate lies against us.
When we are reviled simply because we
belong to him and and identify with his
cause.
He tells us to rejoice. In fact he will
continue to remind us to rejoice in
this. He tells us to remember this is
exactly the same way they persecuted the
prophets who came before us throughout
history. We are standing in their
succession now. Persecution validates
our role and is a reason to smile.
Some may see us trading our comfort, our
reputations to make peace. And they may
call that dangerous.
But that's not how Jesus sees it. When
we choose to lose our earthly fame for
the sake of righteousness, we win not
only a better kingdom, but we will win
his name as well.
Church, I know we all want to win for
God.
Like zealots of old, sometimes we want
to put the world around us back in its
place. But according to Jesus, that
earthly victory that we crave is not the
path to happiness we think it is.
Let's all hope and pray that at the next
critical moment, we can be brave enough
not to win, but to lose for the right
reason.
To lose myself and win himself.
To lose my vengeance and win his
inheritance. to lose my pretense and win
his presence. To lose my fame and win
his name.
Sometimes the best thing we can do for
ourselves and for this world is to lose
because the victory is not ours but his.
&gt;&gt; And the victory is not now but it is
coming.
It's coming.
Jesus said, "Whoever wants to save their
life will lose it, but whoever loses
their life for my sake will find it."
Tonight, that means letting go of
self-ruule to follow him. If you want to
begin following him, we'd love to pray
with you. If you're ready to mark that
publicly with baptism, we can do that
tonight. Or we can just talk and prepare
it together. Whatever your burden, this
is your invitation tonight. Come now as
we stand and
