Eight. And the Lord, he is the one who
goes before you. Almost sounds like the
same verse, doesn't it? He will be with
you. He will not leave you nor forsake
you. Do not fear nor be dismayed. God is
faithful, my friend. Joshua 1 in verse
5. No man shall be able to stand before
you all the days of your life. That's a
promise to Joshua. As I was with Moses,
so I will be be with you. I will not
leave you nor forsake you. God is
faithful. Picking up that this repeats,
right? Hebrews 13:5, "Let your conduct
be without covetous. Be content with
such things as you have for he himself
has said, I will never leave you, nor
forsake."
Interesting thing in Psalm 23:6, I'm
going to talk about this again in a few
weeks, but I thought I'd just give you
something here that I found quite
interesting that I'd never noticed
before. And that is uh surely goodness
and mercy shall follow me all the days
of my life and I will dwell in the house
of the Lord forever. Elizabeth Patron
Wheeler has a comment about that and as
a Bible student and I want to read her
comment and then I'm going to verify
whether or not she's telling the truth.
She says
we don't hear that very often do. The
Hebrew word for follow is the same word
used concerning Pharaoh's action.
After he had let the Israelites leave,
did Pharaoh follow them? No. He pursued
them. He wanted them back. The same word
is used when Saul was looking for David.
Was Saul following David? No. He hunted
him down. This word is used many times
when a person or a group is chasing
after another, even for revenge or
destruction's sake. And it is never
translated as follow except in Psalm 23.
That's interesting, is it not? The
Hebrew word I don't know if I could
pronounce that rough.
I don't know. Anyway, they, you know,
it's backwards and upside down for me.
So it means literally to pursue, chase
or even persecute. God is faithful. That
means he is pursuing you always. Now
that's a neat way of looking at it. Is
that kind of puts a different spotlight
on the prodigal son?
not just following behind you casually,
but chasing you, trying to make sure he
he keeps that relationship with you
because he will never leave you
nor forsake you. God is faithful. And so
the Lord gives us disciples and as makes
us disciples and as disciples, we are
expected to be faithful. And I believe
this text, even though it's applied to
leaders, wives, I think it applies to us
all. We all ought to be faithful in all
things. Here's kind of a list of things
the scriptures uh give you standards of
how disciples should be faithful in all
things. Disciples should be temperate.
Look at this terminology. In all things,
we talked about temperance last time, so
I don't need to go into that right now.
But in all things, you ought to be
temperate. Disciples should be growing
in all things. Ephesians 4 and verse1
15. Grow up in him in all things. Not
just some parts of your life, but in
every part of your life. Disciples must
be praying in all things. Literally in
all things. First Thessalonians first
have my tongue got done. First
Thessalonians 5:18. So literally pray in
all things. And disciples should be
content in all things according to
Philippians 4 11-12. And Paul said he'd
learn to do that. And disciples should
be, as we're looking at tonight,
faithful in all things. And then it uses
an illustration when it says that. And
the illustration is Moses in Numbers 12
and verse 7, which is repeated in
Hebrews chapter 2 uh chapter 3:2 and
verse 5 when it says Moses was faithful
in all things in the Lord's house. So
he's faithful in everything he did with
the Lord. I think that sounds wonderful,
doesn't it? I wish that could be said of
me and you. Don't you? Faithful in all
things. But a church leader's wife not
needs to be faithful in all things. It
doesn't say that. If you read closely
what was read before a moment ago,
you'll notice that the wording is very
clear. Must
must be these things. A wives must be
reverent. That means she must be uh not
be a slanderer. She must be tempered and
she must be faithful in all things. And
faithful, the word here means basically
the root word of that word faithful
means to persuade or have confidence in.
But the word as it's normally translated
means faithful, reliable, trustworthy,
responsible, trusted. One in which I am
confident is meaning of it in all
things. And so it has a plethora of
meanings. We're going to look at a
little more detail to that and how that
relates to uh believing children in
Titus 1:6 in a a week or two. If a wife
is unfaithful,
what would she be unfaithful in?
If a wife is unfaithful to her husband
or to her parenting of her children,
let's just take those two right there.
Would you suggest her husband would be
an elder?
No. No. Absolutely not. So, no. What
about if she was unfaithful in church,
doesn't attend, or when she is here, she
refuses to sing, or she refuses to bow
her head and pray, or she refuses to be
a part of giving, or she refuses to
serve. Of course, would you want that
man that can't get his wife to engage in
worship to be one of your elders?
No.
If a wife is unfaithful, let's say to
her parents,
so her parents need care. Her parents,
somebody's got to step in. She's the
only one available. Somebody's got to
go. Somebody's got to go tend to them.
Somebody's got to do something. If she
would not do that, if she would not
properly care for her parents and you
knew this about her, would you want her
husband to be an elder if she's not even
willing to take care of her own parents?
So, she's unfaithful there. What if a
wife is unfaithful just to her general
promises? So, she tells you she'll do
something, but she won't. She makes
commitments that she never fulfills. She
doesn't show up for work to anything
that you can ever rely on her for it.
When it comes to finances, she's totally
irresponsible. You can't trust her at
all. She's liable to spend way too much
and almost destroy the family. Of
course, her husband probably should not
be an elder. Faithful in all things has
kind of a broad meaning, doesn't it?
Suddenly, you begin to think, well,
faithful in all things, that's a big
number. All things, isn't it? I mean
that's a big number. So what I wanted to
do is take so I wanted to take the word
faithfulness in its time capsule. So
it's time capsule is second Timothy and
Titus. So those must have been about the
same time period. First Timothy as well
but particularly second Timothy and
Titus written about the same time. So
when as you grow y'all learned this in
your own life your vocabulary has
changed. Have you noticed that what you
used to speak like when you were young
and now words that you use changed
slightly and even the use of it has
slightly changed over the process of
time. So we're we're creatures like
that. We kind of do that. And so in the
scriptures we find a little bit of that
happening as men come along. They use
words slightly different in different
contexts partly because of the context,
partly because they have changed and
they've been through other experiences.
But so if we stay in that context, I
wanted us to use this in all things and
see if we can see a broader context for
the word faithful from second Timothy
and Titus and how Paul used that word
faithful in all things. What what would
we look for if that's what it is? So we
want to look at that number one. So to
be faithful in all things would
therefore the way Paul uses this in all
things would be to watchful in all
things. In fact 2 Timothy 4 and verse 5
but you be watchful in all things endure
affliction do the work of an evangelist
fulfill your ministry. Watchful in all
things. This has the connotation of
again being sober uh being sober minded
back to uh not participating in wine.
But in other words, Timothy must
encourage them particularly uh Paul was
encouraging Timothy to keep his head
about him to be smart in all situations
in all situations to be morally alert to
be watchful for the church to be
spiritually alert for yourself but also
for the rest of the church. Vigilant
about all the responsibilities watchful
in all things. So if you have a elder,
wouldn't it be good if his wife was also
watchful in all things and therefore
aware when there were threats to the
church. So yeah, not just the man would
notice that he might she might actually
come up to you and say, "Have you
noticed?" Right? Have you noticed?
Watchful in all things. A second thing.
So this faithful as you recall I said a
moment ago one of the meanings is to be
reliable. So if it means to be reliable
in all things in all things is to be
exemplary in all things. Titus 2 and
verse 7 use uses this in all things in
this way. In all things showing yourself
to be a pattern of good works and
doctrine showing integrity reverence and
incorruptability. So a pattern that's an
interesting word the word pattern there
it's tupost and and you can almost
interpret what that means just by the
word itself but it means the mark
created by blow
uh so basically it's an impression it's
a stamp it's a boom it's a
type if you will does the same kind of
thing it's one of the reasons you use
the word time so thus a church leader's
wife should leave a good impression
and therefore
a pattern a stamp so when they leave the
room you're not saying I wonder if she's
a Christian
but left a good impression there's no
question about what kind of person she
is a lasting stamp for God so to be
reliable in all things and to be
exemplary in all things an example in
every circumstance not questionable oh I
don't know what does she doing. No,
that's not the kind of thing you
normally hear about her. She's pretty
much an example in every situation she
gets into because she's reliable in all
things. Number three, so to be obedient
in all things
is to be pleasing in all things. So if
you're obedient, if faithfulness is
obeying the Lord in every way you can.
So obedience in all things suggest that
you must be using Paul's terminology.
Titus 2:9, "Exhort bonder servants to be
obedient to their own masters, to be
well pleasing in all things, not
answering back." One of the things that
is hard to do is to be pleasing in every
situation. Have you noticed that
it's not easy to be pleasing in every
situation? It's a lot easier to be a
little bit grumpy in some situations, be
downright mean in some situations, to be
some quite unpleasant in certain
situations. But to be well pleasing is
almost entirely and only used in the
scriptures in relationship to being well
pleasing to God, not to each other. So
you went immediately, look what you did.
You did what I want to do. I want to go
to well pleasing to each other. That's
not what he's talking about here.
He's talking about being well pleasing
to God.
So a leader's wife
should be well pleasing to God if she's
faithful in all things, in all
situations, in all things. So being
obedient to people, yeah, and submissive
to others, that's a part of it. That's
also well pleasing. But it's mainly
being well pleasing to God. Number next.
So this idea of being faithful means to
be reliable, to be obedient to God, but
it also means to be trustworthy. So to
be trustworthy in all things is to be
orderly. That's right. It's an
interesting way. Orderly in all things.
Titus 2:10. Again in that same time
period the way this in all things is
used not pilfering but showing all good
fidelity that is faithfulness that they
may adorn the doctrine of God our savior
in all things. Now adorn is an
interesting word. It literally comes
from the idea of the cosmos right
the stars the planets and all that's out
there. That's where it comes from. But
it means the order.
The world has an order to it. And so if
you take it in the way that's used here,
so if you adorn, then you make orderly.
You arrange it. So you arrange it
appropriately. So that's what you do
with your life. You either decorate the
message that we have. You you decorate
the church. you make the church look as
good as possible in all situations. And
that's what it's suggesting here. So you
should be so trustworthy that as a wife
in any situation or anyone else for that
matter, listen, you should send an
orderly message that everything is the
way it should be. So orderly adorn the
doctrine of God our savior in all
things. Do you make what we believe look
good in every situation you can?
There's a question in it that's pretty
deep actually. All right. So, here's
what we've just quickly looked at. So,
leaders wives, here's what we're looking
at. These are parallels to the idea of
being faithful in all things. We're
going to delve a lot dive a lot deeper
into the idea of the word faithfulness
in a couple of weeks when we get to uh
the child. I think think you're going to
be interested in that study. I've
certainly enjoyed that study. But such
trustworthiness and a faithfulness and
reliability and obedience reflects
itself if it reflects in all things and
it reflects in our watchfulness, our
exemplary act attitude being pleasing
and orderly. So we see from this and
faithful in all things is actually
broad. I'm actually surprised that it
goes that broad because that's that's
calling a big thing.
I mean, that's almost feels like
you can't do it.
Do Do you know what I mean?
It's like saying you're perfect in
everything. I'm like faithful in all
things.
That's a big big thing to ask. It's
obvious that we need church leaders who
are faithful in all things, but this is
not the church leader here.
This is just his family. This is just
his wife.
But apparently, it's not enough for her
to be a Christian.
She needs to be the kind of woman that
you have no doubt about her. She is
faithful in everything, in all things.
So after this study, hopefully we know
that that's true for them. But obviously
if that's true for them, who is that
supposed to be a goal for if it's not
every one of us? I'm expected to be
faithful in everything I do. Yeah.
Everything.
Yeah.
Wow.
Faithful in all things. You know,
probably one of the most important ways
anyone is faithful in all things, but
particularly a leader's wife is faithful
in showing up. I know that may sound
silly, but she has to show up for church
obviously, but show up for events,
show up for weddings,
show up for showers, show up for
fellowships, show up for women's events,
and on and on we go.
Yeah, that may sound like a little
thing, but that's a really big thing.
Can I explain? I'll tell you a story. I
don't think I'm going to get this name
right, so forgive me because I'm
probably going to butcher this name. Uh,
Kina and Shane Pavloski.
Yeah, it's close, maybe.
So, they had a a a wedding and they had
their reception at a barn. Y'all ever
heard of anybody doing that? What a
crazy idea. But a barn. Yeah, y'all know
what happened in our lives. So anyway,
so a barn and it was in uh this I'm
going to really mess this up. Scapus
Scapoose Creek in Oregon. I hope I got
that right. Um and they had 40 guests
RSVP. Y'all know what that is, right?
Sent back. Yes, they're definitely
coming. 40.
And at the reception,
five showed up. Now, now understand
40 RSVPd.
25 of them she spoke directly to on the
phone or in person and all 25 says we
will be there. Now you've prepared the
barn for 40 and you get five. So that
means there's seven there.
the five guests
and the two of them,
seven. Now, y'all know this is
decorations. This is the rent of the
place, right? It's the decorations,
right? It's the food, right?
It's things that you would do if there's
a crowd there, like cutting a rug. You
know, you're going to dance a little
bit, maybe. Well, how's that going to
work? That's not going to happen. Uh
some of the planned fatherdaughter
things probably not going to happen. Uh
son and mom thing probably not going to
happen. Cheers. Maybe the uh best men
speech to who? You know, I mean, how is
that all going to work out, right? So,
how did I hear about all this? Well, uh
she decided to put it up on the internet
on Tik Tok. Now, I don't get Tik Tok,
but I read the article and 12 million
people have viewed her video of this.
20,000 comments. She 20,000 people have
made a comment and she said she posted
that video at a lonely moment and she
was really she claimed she wanted to
set, you know, show off how beautiful it
looked and let everybody see how pretty
it was that night. It was tastefully
decorated supposedly. A lot of white
lights, drapery and fabric. You know you
ladies, you know how y'all do that up.
She said this. It was just so beautiful.
I thought someone had to see it.
But then she said in her post, "It just
makes me think like why?
What did we do?
Am I that bad of a person? What did my
husband ever do to deserve any of this?
Why couldn't we matter enough for people
to just show up?
Despite all the disappointment, the
couple made the best of the situation.
They cancelled some of the stuff and
they said they enjoyed it.
But there was a lot of she said she
actually got more kudos from the people
from the video and she feels more loved
by the people watching the video than
she did supposedly her 40 friends who
RSVP.
But then she summarizes with this one
statement.
My hope is that people understand how
important it is to show up.
Just show up.
I don't know if I could make that more
important tonight, but you need to
understand
that's the number one way we define
faithfulness.
You show up to what we need you to show
up to.
You just show up. If you say you're
going to do something, you show up. If
we need you to help, you show up. Things
need to be done, you show up. If
somebody needs something fixed, you show
up. You want to demonstrate faithfulness
in all things,
show up. Amen.
just show up. And so of all things of
leaders wise must be faithful in all
things. I think this is true for us all.
I think more than any other lesson that
I could say to you tonight is that if
you want to be known as faithful, show
up.
Show up. Show up. Show up. Show up at
church.
Show up when somebody needs you. Show
up. Amen. Just show up. So, I'm going to
say faithfulness in all things means a
lot of things. And I tried to cover a
few of them tonight. If you have never
given your life to the Lord, you're not
faithful.
You say, "Well, I'm faithful to my wife,
but you're not faithful in these
things." So, you're not faithful in all
things. You never given your life to the
Lord. You're not faithful in all things.
You might be faithful in some things.
You may be faithful in your job, but
until you make things straight with the
Lord, you're not faithful in all things.
So, do you want to be known for being
faithful in all things?
Then do whatever you got to do. Re
repent quietly by yourself or come
forward. We'll help you every way we
can. Whatever your need is, if we can
help, come while we stand and what we
sing.
