If you're new to us, God bless you for
coming our way. Uh we're we're on a
series uh in the morning that's more
about what uh qualifications of an elder
and uh thus uh we're tonight we're going
to be looking at for this week, the next
four weeks. Well, next three weeks after
this, we'll be looking at qualifications
of church leaders wives and then because
there are four qualities in this text.
Then we're going to be looking at Lord
Willing uh three weeks on uh church
leaders children what kind of things you
should expect. So it's kind of family
nights for the evening and uh so u those
are qualities uh my wife's buckling up
tonight she said. So uh we're looking at
church leaders wives and how they must
be reverent tonight. So um before we go
any further let's pray together. How
about that? Pray with me.
Holy Father, we are grateful for this
congregation and their desire to do your
will, Father, and their desire to even
uh add additional elders, Father, and uh
we pray a blessing upon those that might
be considering that and upon their
families and particularly tonight upon
uh the wives of those men as that's a
difficult path for uh the family. And we
pray uh father that you will bless us in
this study that this won't be a a
message just for church leaders wives
but father it'll be a message for us all
and particularly uh women but all of us
father because these qualities are
qualities we should all have and so we
pray your blessings be upon us as we
study your word tonight. help us to only
and always do our best to understand it
and apply it appropriately and help us
to become what you've always wanted us
to be so that uh even if we don't attain
it here we look forward to the day with
you that we would be the people that
you've always planned us to be and but
until then father help us to be a part
of that sanctification process becoming
the people you want us to be here it's
in Jesus name we pray amen
uh when reading the Bible, we have to
learn uh I think to be patient with the
text
because sometimes we might just misread
it. And it may never happen to you, but
I think it probably has. I know it's
happened to me on many occasions that
I've misread the text, misunderstood it,
misapplied it. It's happened many times.
Um I I've been a fan. And I probably end
up not being a fan because that's what I
usually do. I find somebody that I like
reading after and then I read after him
enough and then I get where I don't like
him anymore. Do y'all do any any of
y'all do that? And I and that's probably
what'll happen here. But I'm kind of a
fan right now of Tim Keller and uh he he
passed away in 2023 and uh he was a
Presbyterian preacher. But interesting
writing. He he had a sermon on
literalism that I want to I want to
quote what he said here because it makes
the point I'm trying to make about this
misreading thing. He said, "Many years
ago, when I first started reading the
book of Genesis, it was very upsetting
to me. Here are all these spiritual
heroes, Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, and
Joseph. And look at how they treated
women. uh they engage in polygamy and
they buy and sell their wives. It was
awful to read their stories at times.
But then I read Robert Alter's The Art
of Biblical Narrative. Alter, it's a
man's name, not a place, but Alter is a
Jewish scholar at Berkeley whose
expertise in ancient Jewish literature,
uh that's where his expertise is. In his
book, he says there are two institutions
present in the book of Genesis that were
universal in ancient cultures. Uh,
polygamy and primogenitor.
Uh, polygamy said a husband could have
multiple wives and primogenitor
said the oldest son got everything, all
the power, all the money. In other
words, the oldest son. Now, that's not
biblical. That's the world. The oldest
son bib uh basically rule over everyone
else in the family. Uh Alter points out
that when you read the book of Genesis,
you'll see two things. First of all, in
every generation, polygamy wrecks havoc.
Having multiple wives is an absolute
disaster socially, culturally,
spiritually, emotionally,
psychologically, and relationally.
Second, when it comes to primogenature,
in every generation, God favors the
younger son over the older. Have you
noticed that? Anyway, I'll come come
back to that another time. Maybe God
favors the younger son over the older in
scripture. He favors Abel, not Cain.
Isaac, not Ishmael. Jacob, not Esau.
Altar says that you begin to realize
what the book of Genesis is doing. It is
subverting, not supporting those ancient
institutions at every turn. When I read
Alter's book, I then reread the book of
Genesis and loved it and then it hit me.
What if when I was younger, I had
abandoned my trust in the Bible because
of these accounts in Genesis? What if I
had dropkicked the Bible and Christian
faith, missing out on a personal
relationship with Christ, all because I
couldn't understand the behavior of the
patriarchs? The lesson is simple. Be
patient with the text.
Consider the possibility that it might
not be teaching what you think it's
teaching.
That's a good point. I think I think
that's a message we all need to realize
that don't be in a hurry. Don't jump to
conclusions.
Now, if that's true with the text of the
scriptures, when reading the text of
someone's life,
like in what we're studying tonight,
like a leader's wife, we have to learn
to be patient with the text
because we might just be misreading it.
If I can do that with the scriptures and
misread the scriptures, might I not
misread a person?
I think it's very possible. More than
that, I think it's likely at times.
Deuteronomy 15:9, for example, says,
"Beware, lest there be a wicked thought
in your heart,
and your eye be evil against your poor
brother, and you give him nothing, and
he cry out to the Lord against you, and
it become a sin among you, you can
actually end up having an evil eye
towards someone or a hardness of your
heart when you look at what someone's
doing and you can conclude food. They're
poor because they have not done the
right thing. And that may not be the
truth. And you may judge somebody
harshly because they've been through
horrendous episodes that you know
nothing about. You don't know their
birth. You don't know the situations.
You don't know anything. So be careful
how you read the text of their life.
Matthew chapter 7 is what this is
talking about. Matthew 7 1-5. I don't
know. Did I include these? Yeah, I did.
Matthew 7 1-5. Judge not that you be not
judged. That's being really critical of
for with what judgment you judge,
you will be judged.
It will be measured back to you. Good
thing to be thinking about while we're
thinking about people who might be
qualified to be elders, don't you think?
But let me stay in it. Verse three. And
why do you look at the speck in your
brother's eye, but do not consider the
plank in your own eye? Do you have a
plank? I'm afraid we might all have a
plank.
Verse four. Or how can you say to your
brother, "Let me remove the speck from
your eye, and look, a plank is in your
own eye." Hypocrite, first remove the
plank from your own eye, and then you
will see clearly to remove the speck
from your brother's eye. So when reading
the text of someone else's life,
like a leader's life,
we have to learn to be patient with the
text
because we might just have misread the
text and not fully comprehended what was
really going on.
So this lesson uh and all elders,
deacons, and family qualifications
when we study this, here's the message
you need to get. This is not to get
them.
We're not studying this to get people.
It's not our job to stop people from
becoming elders and deacons or elders
and deacons wives. Too many people think
or act like, "Well, I'm going to find
something wrong with them. I know
there's something imperfect about them."
Yeah. Like you,
every last one of us have got
imperfections.
If you're looking for that, you will
find it. And I assure you, there's not a
person that doesn't have a problem. And
there's not a leader or leader's life
that doesn't have a weakness. And that's
the truth.
There are some problems that are more
serious than others and I think that's
what it's trying to hone in on. The
problems that would really potentially
cause a problem if allowed to gender and
that's what we need to look at. So it's
important that we look at this seriously
and not just flippantly say, "Oh, well
everybody has problems." That's true and
we need to be careful that we don't go
there. But when you're reading the text
of somebody's life, there are things
that really don't go together with
leadership and it's a problem and it can
cause havoc. So we'll look at it from
that perspective if you will or like try
to I'm not saying that we'll completely
do that but we'll give it a shot. Number
one, so we're going to try to define one
word. Our one word tonight is the word
reverent. We're going to read this over
and over again. Likewise, their wise
must be reverent. We're going to look at
it from the perspective of the first
meaning is serious. They need to be a
serious disciple. It says again, I'll
read it. Likewise, their wives must be
reverent, not slanderous, uh temperate,
faithful in all things. Titus 2 and
verse three uses this same terminology
when it says
likewise that they be reverent in
behavior. So that spells it out a little
more uh that their behavior should be
reverent, not just it's not just an
internal attitude.
Now the word used here in your text,
likewise their wives. Some people want
to make a big deal about the word
likewise, but Paul uses likewise,
likewise, all over the place. And it
doesn't always mean what people want it
to say when Paul uses it. You just start
looking up the word likewise, and you'll
see Paul using it everywhere. It doesn't
necessarily mean in exactly what we tend
to make it mean when we're a little more
liberal, which is this is deaconesses.
Actually, the word here is not
deaconess. There is a word for deaconess
in the scriptures. Uh it's used in
Romans 6 and verse 16 and verse one. And
that word means a servant, a minister,
and it's a plural. I mean, it's a
feminine version of it. that does exist
in scriptures, but here it's just the
word for woman. By the way, there is no
word for wife in the scriptures. Uh
there's just a word for woman and women
were always assumed to be wives. Uh it
has a different word most of the time
when it's talking about a young girl.
But here it's g and it just means a
woman. Uh so in the text it is not
spelling out in my opinion. We'll I'm
going to study this. We'll talk more
about this as we get along. I do not
believe this has any reference to a
deaconess. Um it's not to say that women
who serve are not in a sense of
deaconess, but I don't I do not believe
that that is a um office within the
church. Uh but in many ways, any woman
who serves the church is Greek standard
use of the word u a deaconess. Just like
you're a deacon if you serve the church.
men. Um the word reverent here uh means
if you just define it straight up is
reverend uh venerable and serious or
grave. Grave is often used. It's a word
we don't use much today but it's a good
word for this. 1 Timothy 5 9 and 10
talks about qualities of a person that I
believe is reverend. It says in a
serious disciple, it says in 1 Timothy 5
and:e 9, do not let a widow under 60
years old be taken into the number. And
these people might, you know, some might
have called them deaconesses, but I
don't think that's what this is talking
about. And not unless she has been the
wife of one man. So this is a uh one-man
woman. You heard me say that a elder is
a one woman. This is a one-man woman.
Uh verse 10, well reported for good
works, if she had brought up children,
if she has lodged strangers, if she has
washed the saints feet, if she has
relieved the afflicted, if she has
diligently followed every good work,
that's women who would be added to the
list of those that they would help in
the daily ministration of taking care of
the widows and that they would do work
for the church. My point that I wanted
to draw you to it is this is a very
serious disciple of Christ. Look at the
things she does. She's been very
faithful to one man. She's done good
works all of her life. She brought up
children, which is a task within and of
itself, ladies. She's lodged strangers.
Who wants to have people in your home
that you don't know and you've never met
before? That's a good woman that's
willing to do that. I mean, even to have
somebody into your house these days has
become almost not appropriate for a lot
of people. They just almost people don't
even want you to visit them anymore. We
used to visit like crazy and and now
people almost don't want that. She's
washed the saints feet, which means
she's had people in her home that she
took care of at the most uh basic level.
And she has relieved the afflicted. She
did good things for other people and she
diligently followed every good work.
That's she's a serious disciple. And
that's the reason I use that is because
that that defines a pretty well a
serious female disciple. Um so what if
you're going to talk about her being
serious or grave? Uh that means that she
would not be seen to be involved in um
silly stuff and she wouldn't be
uninvolved in church work. She wouldn't
be morally questionable.
uh she would be a wife, a mom, a good
woman. Uh she would be involved. Uh it
it has I have seen through the years
where there have been in and I don't
think I've seen one here, but I have
seen through the years where there would
be good men whose wives did nothing.
I've seen that where they were not
engaged at all. These men were involved
in the church leaders and it just seemed
like sister so and so was always sick.
Couldn't come couldn't help. She could
go to work. She could do everything else
but she's always sick when it came time
to do anything in the church. I've seen
that. I've not imagined that. I've seen
that firsthand. That's not a serious
disciple. Serious disciple is someone
who does do things. So a church leader's
wife must be reverent. And I think the
first meaning of that that we just need
to contemplate is that she's serious.
She's a serious disciple. The second
thing that I want you to see in this
word
is uh likewise let our wives be
reverent. And again at reverent in
behavior uh reverent
uh has a root
comes back to the word to worship.
It is to assemble with the saints.
Hebrews 10:25. It's the same word that
we see in verse 8 of 1 Timothy 3. If you
see it down there, it says, "Likewise,
deacons must be reverent." And so, it is
the idea we imagine a
person being a deacon who doesn't go to
church, doesn't attend. So, that would
be impossible because the very meaning
of the word is someone who worships. So
Luke 2 and:e 37 the concept of that is
seen in this woman. And this woman this
is the one that they visited after Jesus
was born. And this woman did not depart
from the temple but served God with
fasting and prayers night and day. So
not ever attending would not be
appropriate and full of excuses for
never engaging in church worship
activities, prayer, worship, that would
not be appropriate. So if you're going
to be serious disciple, then you've also
got to be reverent in the sense of
worshipful and respectful of the Lord
himself. So a good church leader's wife
must be reverent in that sense and
therefore worshiping a worshshiping
disciple. Number three,
likewise their wives must be reverent.
It means a respected person, someone
that's respected by others. Uh likewise
their wives must be reverent. Uh so just
before this in 1 Timothy 3 and:e 8, we
have this statement. Likewise, deacons
must be reverent. And it it says it in
verse seven explaining that a little bit
because verse seven says he must have a
good testimony among those who are
outside or or as the New American
Standard says he must have a good
reputation. So a person who is reverent
is a person who is respected.
It's not just someone who respects God.
It is someone themsself that is
respected. So it's someone that we find
not just serious and not just a
worshipper but someone you can respect.
John MacArthur says this about it in his
first Timothy commentary. He says he
must uh she must lead serious lives. And
so people should hold them in awe
because of their spiritual devotion. So
there's someone that's so worshipful, so
serious in their discipling that they
are respected by the congregation and
people see them as special and their
commitment. Proverbs 31:es 27 through31
says, "She watches over the ways of her
household." All you ladies know this
passage forward and backwards. I know
you studied in ladies class many times.
She watches over the ways of her
husband. Proverbs 31. and does not eat
the bread violent. So she's busy. She
works. Verse 28, her children rise up
and call her blessed. So she is
respected by her children. Her husband
also and he praises her. She's respected
by her husband. Verse 29, many daughters
have done well, but you excel them all.
So whoever's writing this respects them
as well. And people see that from a
distance. Verse 30, charm is deceitful
and beauty is passing. But a woman who
fears the Lord, she shall be praised.
People will speak well of her when she's
there, when she's not there. They will
say good things. Verse 31, give her of
the fruit of her hands and let her own
works praise her in the gate. So this is
um not seen as a woman who no one
respects. It has to be a woman who is
respected and respected specifically
first and foremost by her own husband uh
by her own children but then of course
by the people she would go to church
with by the people she might work with
by the people she's around be respected
by them. So a church leader's wife must
be revered and therefore respected. Now
if you just look at this on the surface,
this this is pretty well a good
description of any and every woman I
would think that would call themsself a
Christian. It would be a serious
disciple would be a person who would be
about worshiping and would be a
worshshiping disciple and would be a
respected disciple. Isn't that supposed
to be everybody that we know including
all the men as well? So I think we
should see it that way. But of course
these qualities not just describe each
and every woman but each and every man.
It should describe each and every child,
each and every teenager. It should
describe us all. Uh that famous uh poet
from Greece anonymous, he wrote
something. He said, "You may think it
quite an easy task and just a pleasant
life, but really it takes a lot of grace
to be a church leader's wife.
She's supposed to be a paragon without a
fault in view. A saint within her home
as well as in the pew. Her home may be a
small hotel for folks that chance to
roam and yet have peace and harmony. The
perfect church leader's home. Whenever
groups are called to meet, her presence
must be there. And yet the members all
agree she would live a life of prayer.
Or she should. Though hearing people's
burdens, their grief both night and day,
she ought to spread but sunshine to
those along the way. She must lead uh
lend a sympathetic ear to every tale of
woe, then forget about it, lest it to
others go. Her children must be models
rare of quietness and poise, and still
stay on the level with the other girls
and boys. You may think it quite an easy
task
and just a pleasant life, but really it
takes a lot of grace to be a church
leader's wife. So, we're talking about
reverence,
a person with reverence and respect.
If you don't have that quality,
it's dangerous.
I mean, it's it's it's dangerous.
National parks have rules. Now, you
would think that wouldn't be a hard
thing to figure out, but national parks
have rules.
Uh if you ever go to a national park,
you should read the rules.
There's good reason to read the rules at
national parks.
Um
like Yellowstone has a rule says 25 ft.
Stay 25 ft away from animals like the
bison.
Otherwise, there's a video out on
YouTube right now of a girl, young girl,
being gored by a bison because she
thought she could pet them.
25 ft. The thing's as big as a car. You
might should stay away from it. 100 ft
is how far you're supposed to stay away
from bears.
I've seen people I remember going to the
Smokies and I remember a bear with her
cubs coming up and people were going up
and taking pictures from 5t away and the
bear lunged at this one person and I'm
just like we we stayed in our car. We
like that's not smart. bears and wolves
and yes uh coyotes are also there's a
coyote attack of a 19-year-old
and were killed at the Cape Britain
Highland National Park. A woman was
attacked by wolves while jogging through
Park in Paris. Wolves in Paris. Yes.
Uh
but y'all think that's really tough. Let
me go to Africa.
Okay. So, I I'll talk about South Africa
first. South Africa, Kruger National
Park. Um, just recently, uh, a tourist
was trampled to death by an elephant.
Now, when you understand that, let me
explain to you how an elephant tramples
you to death. It doesn't step on you
with his foot. He steps on you with that
little knee just above his foot. Steps
on you with that. Cuz that's hard. The
foot can step on you, won't break your
foot, but if he steps on you with that
knee, you're done with and then they
gore you. Didn't survive.
Zambia's had quite a few attacks. People
didn't follow the rules. Zambia, the
Kaufu National Park in Zambia,
80year-old American, which is often
Americans by the way, killed by
elephant, got out, thought you could go
pet the elephants. Uh, don't pet the
elephants. If you ever go to Africa,
don't get out where there's elephants.
Don't get out where there's buffalo.
Don't get out where there's animals.
Giraffe can kill you easily with one
kick. Don't think it's safe. Don't start
thinking they're just like animals.
Don't think that way. Zambia National
Park, uh there's two women killed
recently just walking. They were just
walking. They didn't see the elephant.
The elephant saw them, killed them.
29year-old Katherine Chapels, uh was
killed June of 2015. and a lion park.
This lion park we had visited Deb. We
visited there a few times. Remember
talking to the one guy. I think he got
killed later, but at the time he showed
us he was the one of the rangers and he
was around a female one day and a female
reached up and grabbed him with her
mouth and he almost bled to death before
he got to and all he did is bit him
through the hand one time. He kicked it
and got back in his vehicle. But they
have quite a few lines there. The lions
kill each other occasionally. and the
lion part a this case this Katherine
Chapel uh she just rolled down the
window she had a guide with her she
rolled her window down was taking
pictures and female lion just came up
and guide her took her uh I remember
years ago back in about 95 when we were
visiting there just before we'd gone to
visit there uh there were some Japanese
tourists there and one guy got out of
his vehicle and started taking pictures
in front of his car and and they got him
and so Okay, the car the only thing they
could get the lines off of him is they
drove the car over him. My point about
all of this, if you don't show respect,
this is all horrible, right? If you
don't show respect, you can get hurt. Uh
you drive a car, don't you?
You don't show respect. If you don't
stop at stop signs, if you don't stop at
red lights, if you don't try to stay
near the the speed limit, some of you,
that's a hard thing, I know, but stay
near it or below it, something like
that. If you don't stay near it, you're
not respecting the situation. You can
get hurt. When you don't respect
situations,
you can get hurt. Cars kill people all
the time. But in these parks in the
United States, it averages about 10
people are killed a year by animals in
the United States. But nobody talks
about that, do they? Because, oh, it's
just, oh, they're playful. They're just
they're just they're just animals. We're
here to see them. Uh, please don't make
that mistake. And please don't think
that you don't have to be respectful.
You don't have to be a serious disciple.
You don't have to be worshipful. And you
don't have to be respectful toward
everybody else to be respected. If
you're going to be a disciple of the
Lord, those things right there, they're
not optional. That's the way it's got to
be. And if you're going to be an elers's
life, that's not optional. That's the
way you got to be. That's not maybe the
way it's got to be. That's who you have
to be.
If you're not that, we we don't need
you. In fact, you're a problem already
in the congregation if you're not those
things and you just don't know it.
It's serious
and it causes all kinds of problems. So,
let's all strive to have these good and
godly qualities and but at the same
time, remember what my first point is,
but be careful
when you're reading the text of someone
else's life.
Don't assume you know everything.
Don't assume you've understood exactly.
You know, if you catch me on a bad day,
I don't know if y'all know this, but you
catch me on a bad day and I won't curse
you out, but I'll think about it.
You know what I mean? I'll think about
saying something ugly.
I hope I won't say anything bad. It's
been a long time since I said anything
really bad. So I just, you know what I
mean? So you catch me on a bad day. I
have bad days. You have bad days. You
catch somebody on a bad day, don't judge
them all by that one bad day. Right? So
let's try to be respectful
of someone who is to be reverent. And
when we're considering people for church
leadership and we're seeking those men,
you have to consider their mate. One of
the things you need to consider their
mate by and and some of you would do
this and others would not, but I highly
recommend I I recommend it always to the
elders if they're going to vet men is
it's not a bad idea to walk up to the
wife of the ones being considered and
say, "What do you think? Should they or
should they not?"
Because they know things you don't know.
They don't have to elaborate.
That's usually enough right there. If
they tell you no,
you need to listen,
okay? Because they know stuff. So, I
highly recommend that you at least talk,
not just to the man that you would want
to consider nominating. I highly
recommend after you have is speak a word
or two to the wife if you haven't in a
while. Now, if you already know
everything I just said is true of that
person, then you don't probably have to.
But you might learn something about the
man.
If you're here tonight and you haven't
given your life to the Lord, we want to
give you that opportunity. These things
should be true of each one of us. If
these things are not really true of you,
no matter who you are, and you're
claiming to be a disciple of the Lord,
then it needs to change. And maybe you
need to do something publicly to make
this right. Maybe you've never obeyed
the gospel. If you've never obeyed the
gospel, then that's what we need to take
care of. But whatever your need, won't
you let it be known by coming forward if
you need to while we stand and while we
sing.
