I was thinking about this this week. I
am definitely not a scholar. Uh I'm a
student of the Bible, but I am not a
scholar. Having this conversation this
week with Deb, I guess I'm a Seale,
and I mean that I'm about a Seale
student of the word. Um
cuz I ponder stupid stuff. I No, you're
not supposed to say that word. Dumb
stuff. Uh I ponder dumb stuff. Um, I was
thinking the other day, why do they call
concrete in front of your drive, I mean,
why do they call the concrete in front
of your garage, a driveway
when you don't drive on it?
And why do they call streets
roadways
when you're always riding on them? Why
don't they call them rideways?
And then they should call them, if
they're going to call them rideways,
when they lead to driveways, or else why
roadways leading to droveways,
why is it a parkway when you don't park
any rate?
So,
I'm just not that smart. In fact, I was
talking to Deb. I said, and she was
asking me the other day, what what do
you what would you grade your preaching?
And I'd say, "Well, on a good day, I'm a
B minus, but I'm usually just about a C
plus."
And she said, "Do you really mean that?"
And I said, "When I'm being kind,
that's that's not being humble. That's
real." And if you don't believe that,
it's just because you haven't been
exposed to very many preachers. If
you've been exposed to more preachers,
you'd feel the same way. Um, so when I
get into what we're talking about
tonight, at first you're going to think
he hasn't thought this through. And you
may be right, but hopefully by the time
we get through, you'll be happy with
where we get to on this. The background
to our text is the historically
predominant interpretation of this text,
uh, which is as old as the Catholic
Church. The Catholic Council of Carthage
in 393 wrote, "Bishops, elders, and
deacons should not be ordained to office
before they have made all in their
household members of the Catholic
Church."
So that's an old belief.
Um, if our text means elders, children
must all be baptized believers,
we have to ask the question, does this
rule extend then to children no longer
living at home if a man became a
Christian later in life?
Do you understand the question? And in
connection with that, if merely small
children are in view,
if that's all he's really talking about
in this text, keeping them under
control, why would Paul then add a
child's conduct must not be rious or
unruly?
Why would it refer to morality if he's
talking about small children? So, that
wouldn't make sense. So, neither of
those seem to make sense.
Why would the text require upright moral
conduct
and leave open the issue as to whether
the children were responsive to Christ?
Why would it be important for them to
have upright moral conduct if they
weren't responsive to Christ? That's the
question.
And if these qualities are to
demonstrate an elers's spiritual
leadership ability,
how could it not include the idea of
leading his family to the Lord?
Right?
And thus real scholars having been
inclined throughout history
uh to say that his children must be
obedient to Christ or said the majority
of commentators will say that an elder
must have Christian children. I mean I'm
just saying you don't even have to go
far. You'll see that that is the
majority view.
And the background to our text is in the
meaning of the Greek translated
faithful. So if you got your Bible open,
that word faithful, pisto is literally
from a word that means to persuade or to
have confidence in. And it's normally
translated, predominantly translated
faithful or reliable.
And it's translated a bunch of different
ways in the Bible. Let me give you that
list. I think I put it on the thing. Oh,
I'm already past this page. I think here
we go. Here's the list. There's the list
of the way it's translated. And the
number beside it is the number of times
it's translated that way. What's the
predominant way it's translated class?
What?
Pretty good. You read well. Okay. So,
so that's the predominant way. Then that
doesn't mean that that's the only way.
Obviously, look at the way it's been
translated, right? Uh background to our
text is in the meaning of uh 1
Corinthians 4:17, though that needs to
be considered. 1 Corinthians 4:17 says,
"For this reason, I have sent Timothy to
you, who is my beloved and faithful son
in the Lord, who will remind you of my
ways in Christ.
and um as I teach everywhere in every
church.
Well, he teaches everywhere in every
church. So, one would think whatever
Paul is teaching in Titus,
he was trying to teach in Timothy to
Timothy, right? And if there was another
minister out there, young fellow that
he's trying to train and working, he
would try to teach them the same
requirement for an elder or a deacon or
their wives or their children. It' be
the same cuz he teaches what he teaches.
One place he trusts that you never We'll
come back to that thought. Matthew
Henry, uh 1662, 1714. So you tell this
is pretty old. Uh Presbyterian Bible
commentary writer. A lot of you have
read some of his commentaries. You see,
he lets them know that his teaching was
the same everywhere and in every church.
And he had not one doctrine for one
place and people and another for
another. He kept close to his
instructions
what he received of the Lord that he
delivered. So he tried to just as he had
received it, deliver it, which is what
we're all supposed to try to do. John
Gil, which is a little later, 1697, most
of you probably heard of him,
theologian, Bible scholar. He said, "As
I teach everywhere in every church, the
faith he delivered everywhere was one
and the same. The son of God preached by
him was not yay and nay. The trumpet he
blew always gave a certain sound. The
rules prescribed by him, and orders he
laid down for the conduct of life and
government of the churches were exactly
alike. In all places he taught no
doctrines at Corenth, nor enjoined the
observance of any rule, but what all
other churches were taught and directed
to. His plan of doctrine and discipline
was the same everywhere. At least that's
what he says. And I believe he's telling
the truth. Don't you? I mean, I have no
reason to doubt that he meant to do
that. And uh so I believe whatever Titus
17 uh is saying um I mean verse 6 is
saying then would be the same thing that
would be reflected in 1 Timothy 3 and
what's enjoined upon men there. So we're
going to look at uh about four things
here and um how similar they are and
then we're going to draw a conclusion.
How's that sound good? Okay. Number one.
So what could this mean? This could mean
elders must have children that are
believers in Christ. So what what does
the word faithful mean? It says in New
American Standard namely if any man is
above reproach the husband of one wife
having children who believe that's the
word it uses not accused of dissipation
or rebellion. So it uses the word having
children who believe. So what is it to
believe? Acts 16:1
it says then he came to Derby and
Lististra. Behold, a certain disciple
was there named Timothy, the son of a
certain Jewish woman, who believed, but
his father was Greek. Using the same
word, what did it mean that she
believed? She's a full-fledged
Christian. And what does it mean um then
therefore to believe? Not all believers
are genuine. And so we see that in the
discussion of his uh Timothy's parents
and family. 2 Timothy 1:5 when I call to
remembrance the genuine the genuine not
just the faith but the genuine faith
that is in you that is in Timothy which
dwelt first in your grandmother Lois and
your mother Eunice and I'm persuaded is
in you also so here we see when he what
he meant by believed and that is it's a
genuine faith and genuine believers
can't even start out being genuine
believers when their children and that's
important related to our text 2 Timothy
3 and:1 15 and that from childhood
talking about Timothy you have known the
holy scriptures so you shouldn't equate
the people back then didn't have access
and didn't weren't able to study the
holy scriptures didn't know them
couldn't be thought to be believers that
from childhood you have known the holy
scriptures probably related to the old
testament predominantly there which are
able to make you wise for salvation
through faith which is in Christ Jesus.
Now some believers do not have genuine
faith. So just because they believe so
not all who believe
are genuine.
That's an important distinction to make
here since our text says having children
who believe.
James 2 19 and 20. You believe that
there is one God. You do well. Even the
demons believe and tremble.
I don't believe demons have ever seen
God. Verse 20. But do you uh do you want
to know, oh foolish man, that faith
without works is dead? Here's what we do
know. Demons are have a dead faith. So
we know that, too. So genuine believers
believe and diligently seek God, right?
That's what genuine believers do because
Hebrews 11:6 says, "But without faith it
is impossible to please him. For he who
comes to God must believe that he is and
that he is a rewarder of those who
diligently
seek him." So
it is difficult to conclude of a small
child or even a baptized teenager living
at home fully that he is genuine.
How do you know? Well, he's baptized.
I've seen some baptized people and I
found out later where it's so general.
So
a small kid 10 years old.
See I baptized an 8-year-old. I think
that's the youngest of it. I might have
baptized a seven-year-old one time. But
anyway,
I didn't want to do that, but it it was
kind of put on me. So, you know, was
that genuine?
You know, so that's a question you ask
yourself. So the question is because
this could mean that elders must have
children that are believers in Christ.
It could mean that and that's what the
New American Standard leads into. All
right. So the second possibility
it could mean this could mean that
elders must have children that are
faithful to Christ.
Titus 1:6 New King James Version
translated if a man is blameless the
husband of one wife having faithful
children not accused of dissipation or
insubordination that's the key to maybe
explaining what he means by faithful
here so dissipation it's not a word we
use a lot in English language today it's
a little archaic for us it comes from
Atoya which is the negative of the word
for uh life or safe for well or to save.
Uh but Atoya basically means unsavedness
or wastefulness. So now don't get to
unsavedness meaning he's behaving in a
way that reflects that he's not saved.
Rather, the word mainly means that you
didn't waste it. It was saved and not
wasted. So it's a little hard to make
that other meaning out of that, but it
does kind of sound like that. So that's
dissipation. It's more about a wasted
life. Do you understand that? They
wasted their life. Now insubordination
is an interesting word. It actually
comes from a word that means to place
under, to rank under, or to subject to
obey. But it literally means not subject
to rule.
So for a child to be accused of not
being subject to rule
could mean that won't do what his
parents say or won't do what the Lord
says,
right?
Could go either way. Um so what does
faithful mean? Well, faithful can mean
righteousness, right? uh Luke 16 uh
10-12 uses it that way when it says he
who is faithful in what is least is
faithful also in much and he who is
unjust
in what is least is unjust also in much.
So unfaithfulness is equivalent to being
unjust. Verse 11, therefore if you have
not been faithful in the unrighteous
mammon. So not being faithful is
equivalent to being unrighteous.
Who will commit to you your trust the
true riches? So faithfulness is equated
to true riches.
So
faithfulness is often referred to as
like being righteous.
Faithful also means good. It means to be
a good person. Luke chapter 19 and verse
11, I mean verse 17 says, "And he said
to him, well done, good servant because
you were faithful." So you're called
good because you were faithful in a very
little having authority over 10 uh
cities. So if a child throws a tantrum,
would that disqualify
an elder? So, let's say we had an elder
here and his child threw a tantrum in
the middle of the service.
I mean, laid down the floor and
screamed.
He's three, probably wouldn't think
about think about it. If he's 21, it
might be an issue. But, uh, so you have
to figure out
what do we mean by faithful? So, and
what do we mean by insubordinate or or
dissipation? So if uh what if a child
living at home refuses to go to church?
I've seen that children. I haven't
understood parents letting it happen,
but I have seen children do that and
parents allowing it. I've seen
men allowing their wives to not come to
church. What if a child living at home
refuses to go to church? Uh,
and what about those who've left home
now and refuse to go to church? Those
are all questions you have to answer in
this. So, we're not done yet. Just
trying to get you into it where my
scramble brain goes. Okay. Number three.
So, this could mean elders must have
children that are faithful to parents.
That could be a way of interpreting
this. Titus 1:6 again New King James
says if a man is blameless the husband
of one wife having faithful children. So
the emphasis on the the children in 1
Corinthians 4:17 again it says as I
teach everywhere in every church. Here's
going to hear this argument. Now back to
that argument I told you we'd come back
to in 1 Corinthians 4:7 it says this for
who makes you differ from another.
Here's the truth. We we should not be
able to easily identify one Church of
Christ from another. There's the real
truth. All churches should be basically
teaching the same thing, right? We
should all be saying pretty much the
same thing. That's what we should be
doing. Uh maybe you've had a different
preacher. Galatians 1:8. But even if we
or an angel from heaven preach any other
gospel to you than what we have preached
to you, let him be a curse. So clearly
it's bad to not be preaching the same
thing or the same gospel. Right?
So then you come back. The reason I
bring that up is because what Paul would
have taught Timothy, he would have
taught Titus. Now we'll go back to that
argument. Turn in your Bibles to
Timothy. Well, it's up there. I didn't
realize I put it up there. 1 Timothy
3:es 4 and 5. One who rules his own
house. Well, and there's no mention
about him being the children being
faithful here. That's not mentioned. So,
it says, "Having his children in
submission with all reverence, for if a
man does not know how to rule his own
house, that is control, I guess, how
will he take care of the church of God?
How will he control the church when it
gets out of hand?" So what's the
emphasis here? These sound like younger
children.
I mean it just sounds that way. Uh but
submission with all reverence. I'll come
back to that. Thus this could refer if
this was the only text we had. We didn't
have Titus 1 verse 6, right? This was
it. Right? And we concluded all we
conclude about this subject from this
text. What might we conclude?
Well, this could refer to children who
are obedient,
trustworthy, well- behaved, reflecting
on a parent positive way of being able
to handle his children and just keep
them under control.
Uh so church leaders children would then
be
ruly not disobedient and demonstrate
faithful submission
faithfully doing what their parents say.
Thus they should be children that would
obey
and demonstrate a respectful attitude.
Uh, thus they should be trustworthy
and reliable kind of to do what their
father or mother tells them to do. So if
they ask them to do something, let's say
take the garbage out and they never get
around to it. I'm not talking to any of
y'all about anything particular tonight,
but if that comes up at home, listen. So
whatever they ask you to do, you could
kind of depend that it would get done.
so trustworthy, reliable, reflecting
upon that sort of upbringing and the
values that would be being instilled by
their parents. So thus they should
demonstrate
as an elder the ability to manage his
own household and instill values in the
child by their observable conduct.
And that might be all that we would have
concluded from first Timothy if that's
all we had. Right? I mean, that's
probably what we would do. But that's
not all we have. But let's go back now.
So, the final thing we want to look at,
this could mean elders must have
children that are faithful in
everything.
And why would I say that? Well, it's
right next to something else. So we so
we say Titus 1 vers6 if anyone is
blameless
uh having one wife a husband of one wife
having children steadfast is the this is
the Young's literal translation by the
way if anyone is blameless of one wife a
husband having children steadfast and
that's the way it interprets it by the
way Young's literal translation very
good translation it's very accurate not
under accusation of righteous living or
insp subordination. So now it becomes
like elders wives or deacons wives which
is the passage we've been studying 1
Timothy 3 and 11 which says likewise
their wives must be reverent not
slanderers temperate faithful in all
things. So does faithfulness mean that
they're basically kind of faithful in
everything? Well, that said a lot. By
the way, Titus 16, having faithful
children. Uh, the New King James again,
uh, Titus 1:9, holding fast the faith.
These are, this is King James. Titus 1:6
is having faithful children, not
believing children. Titus 1, this is New
King James. Titus 1:9, holding fast the
faithful word. That doesn't mean
believing word. It means word. It's
reliable because it's predominant
meaning of the word reliable and that
sort of faithful. Titus 3 and:8 a
faithful saying is a reliable saying and
and there are many examples of that. 1
Timothy 1:12 New King James counted
count me faithful putting me in the
ministry. That means reliable,
trustworthy, responsible. 2 Timothy 2:2
uh commit these to faithful men who will
be able to teach others also. So that's
the idea that you could trust them rely
on them to do this. 1 Corinthians 4 and
verse two it is required in stewards
that one be found faithful. So now with
that in mind uh there would have to be a
time period involved in that but context
therefore in that time period of all
that writing. So these are the time
periods. So Paul wrote 1 Timothy and
Titus and second Timothy kind of in the
same zone. So it hints that the
predominant meaning is faithful,
reliable, trustworthy in its meaning.
So back to
yet.
So it's suggesting that children are
faithful, reliable, and trustworthy in
all things that you can just depend upon
them in anything.
So here's what we've looked at. If
you're not scrambled eggs yet, you will.
So
here's what we've seen. Elders must have
children that are believers in Christ.
Elders must have children that are
faithful to Christ. Elders must have
children that are faithful to parents.
Elders must have children that are
faithful in everything. Those are the
possible meanings that we have just
walked through. Right?
Well, what do you believe? Here's what I
believe. I kind of think all the above
are true.
as they are almost mean the same thing.
When you really analyze bot texts,
it kind of means the same thing. One
thing is clear though, parenting
determines if a man can lead a church.
It really does.
It really does. So, I kind of think it's
all true. I think what's true in one
place is pretty much true in the other.
So young people, um if your parents are
not leading you to Christ because the
way they're living, ignore your parents.
Find Christ. But please, please choose
Christ now. Young people, choose Christ
now. Choose Christ now. Choose Christ
before you leave home. Choose Christ
now. It gets harder and harder and
harder to be good the longer you wait.
You may not realize how true that is,
but listen to Ecclesiastes 12 and verse
one. Remember now your creator in the
days of your youth before the difficult
days come. You think your childhood is
difficult.
Okay. Uh yeah, it might be time to take
a wakeup call
before the difficult days come and the
years draw nigh. You say, "I have no
pleasure in them." Let let me tell you
what's happening to me. I'm getting old.
Young people, I'm getting old. You hear
me? Young people. Are there any young
people in there? Yes. There's one back
there. No, I'm just kidding. So,
here's what's happening to me. I'm
enjoying everything less
every day that passes.
Things aren't as much fun as they used
to be. It's just not as much fun. Can I
get an amen?
that the pain and the difficulty
and if I hadn't become a Christian till
now I wouldn't
if I didn't know what I know now and I
suddenly got exposed at this point
having not heard about Jesus until now I
doubt seriously I'd consider it because
the pain and the difficulty would
override any logic of trying to make
sure I was right with God. I'm afraid I
wouldn't think the way you think you
would think. And that's the reason you
see almost no one converted, baptized,
60, 70, 80, 90, 100 years old. How many
people have you seen baptized like that?
We've had one since I've been here in
their 80s. One in their 80s baptized.
And that's in right at nearly 30 years.
So remember your creator in the days of
your youth, young people. Isaac Watts
may have said it best when he said, "How
shall the young secure their hearts and
guard their lives from sin? Thy word,
the choicest, rules and parts to keep
the conscience clean. Thy word is
everlasting truth. How pure is every p
page. I that holy book shall guide our
youth and well support our age. I'm so
glad now that I followed the Lord when I
was young.
I'm so glad now and you would be too,
young people. Two boys were out playing
in the snow. Y'all know what snow is?
It's white stuff.
It's kind of like sand. A little warmer.
No, the other way around. So, two boys
playing out in the snow one day and one
said to the other, "Let's see who can
make the straightest path in the snow by
just,"
you ever done that scuff along? "Let's
see who can make it." His friend
accepted the proposition that we're
going to see who can do the best. And
so, one boy fixed his eye on a tree and
the other boy fixed his eye on the same
tree. And they started walking a little
far apart headed toward a tree. And one
boy every now and then would look back
and see am I doing it straight and then
would turn around and keep walking and
look back turn around keep walking look
back turn around kept walking the other
boy didn't do that other boy just kept
his eyes on the tree walked toward the
tree which one gave the straighter
course what do you think the one that
looked back or the one that kept looking
straight at the tree? The one that kept
looking straight at the tree. Yes, sir.
It was straight. He said, "How how did
you get your path so true?" He says, "I
just put my eyes on the tree and I kept
walking toward the tree and didn't
change my course." That's what you need
to do, young people. Put your eyes on
Jesus and don't take them off of them
until you're way older than I am. Cuz
one of these days, I'm afraid all you
kids are going to live to be over a
hundred. So, be careful live to be a
hundred. You need to get it right now.
Young people, set your eyes on Jesus.
Who knows? You may be making one of your
parents shepherd by your behavior. Now,
that may not satisfy a bunch of you. I'm
sure some of you are going to go for the
liberal view, and that is they're just
obedient children. Some of you going to
go for the ultra-conservative view. All
of your children have to be baptized,
even the ones that are five years old.
I mean, can't have any that aren't
faithful today. Well, I got one that's
60. I don't know if any elder in here's
got a kid that's 60, but any rate, if
you I got a kid that's 60 and he left
the church because I didn't raise him in
the church. I wasn't a Christian until I
was 45.
What about they just decide not to
anymore? Are you responsible for it when
they're 60?
So, you have to decide that. And there's
going to be some that absolutely every
one of them always. And there's going to
be some No. And then there's some
people, believe it or not, in this
church don't even believe you have to
have children. So, uh, that's not a
joke. I wish that was a joke. But by the
nominations we got the other day, you
don't even have to have children. And
then you don't have to have a plurality
of children. And then on down the road.
So, there's a lot of that sort of thing.
People not looking at the text. Here's
the question to you. What do you believe
now? I lean into all the above.
feel more comfortable with that. It
probably didn't answer your question,
did it? If you're here tonight, I
believe all the above.
Amen. Believe all the above. If you
haven't given your life to all the
above, this being a good opportunity.
Need to obey the gospel. We stand ready
to help you with that. Repenting of your
sins, confessing the name of Christ, and
being baptized, or just getting your
life straightened out. We'll be happy to
pray with you. God bless you. If you
need to come, come while we standing
while we sing.
