Good evening, church.
So far, I've received in the
neighborhood of 43
more questions than I have tonight. So,
tonight, add to that 50 questions plus
two a week ago. That's 52 questions have
been submitted so far. So, we may be
here until the Lord comes answering
questions. So, um, I will say that
ultimately the point of this is not just
to cover the area that you're interested
in or help you with the question if
that's your need or to unveil what you
want the rest of us to see, but it's
also so that you and I both are ready to
do what that scripture just said and
answer questions when other people
outside the walls ask us questions. And
so we need to be prepped as best we can
and most of that would come through your
own personal study obviously but then
again sometimes someone will wake you up
about a point that you hadn't thought of
that way and that would be helpful in
your answering the question. So before
we get any deeper into this um let's
begin with a prayer. Pray with me.
Well, holy father, uh we thank you that
we have the church that uh we can gather
with people of like precious faith,
Father, and serve you the best we can
and honor you in every way we can. And
that includes, Father, in the way we
think and the way we answer people. So,
we pray that you would help us in our
study tonight, that you'll help us to be
better at answering questions that may
come our way. and help us to do it,
Father, always with meekness and fear
that we might honor you and glorify your
word and your son and your name. It's in
the name of Jesus we pray. Amen.
So, I was reading about the idea of
answering questions and there's this
podcast called Freconomics and it
explored why the phrase I don't know is
apparently so difficult for people to
say. They said, "Contrary to the common
belief that I love you is the hardest
phrase, the host was arguing that I
don't know is even more challenging, at
least for many. And our reluctance to
admit ignorance
starts even when we're a child and it
persists into adulthood. I don't know or
I can't do it." Psychology
experts uh show that when children are
asked nonsensical questions such as
whether quote a sweater is angrier than
a tree, most will invent answers rather
than admitting that they don't know the
answer to that question. So apparently
it's a part of our makeup who we are.
The tendency to fabricate answers
instead of acknowledging uncertainty is
not just a childhood trait though. They
went on to say it carries over into
adulthood especially into professional
careers and environments. In 
the business world saying I don't know
is often seen as a sign of incompetence.
So people feel pressured to respond with
some kind of an answer even if they
really
don't know. So they'll say something. So
the podcast hoax noted that despite
their reputation as business experts,
they rarely hear anyone in corporate
settings, especially in front of a boss,
admit they just don't know something.
The prevailing belief is that expertise
means always having an answer even if
you have to fake it. So, however, the
mindset is literally counterproductive
to actually finding an answer because it
prevents you from really looking deeper.
And so, the host argue that admitting I
don't know is essential for improvement
and learning.
Embracing uncertainty opens the door to
genuine inquiry and self- betterment
rather than faking you're an expert
about something. The real path to growth
is acknowledging well we don't know and
using that as a starting point for
discovery. So I don't know. Maybe we
should practice it. Maybe say it with
me. I don't know. How about that? It's
pretty good. So the questions tonight
are I have six.
What does 1 Corinthians 5:5 uh hand him
over to Satan mean and explain it in
context. Second question is what does
the scriptures say about cremation and
is it wrong? Third question if we get to
it what are the covenants from God to
mankind from Genesis to Revelation?
Fourth question according to scripture
what is the great white throne in
Revelation? And then John 9:31,
if we believers are in sin, does God not
hear? And how does this 
apply to unbelievers? And the sixth
question, 1 John 4:1, uh, how do we test
spirits and give examples? The answer
is, I don't know. Thank you for coming.
So apparently, you expect answers,
right? So we'll do that. We'll do the
best we can. So the first question
tonight, what does 1 Corinthians 5:55
when it says hand him over to Satan
mean? And explain it in context. So I'd
encourage you to turn to 1 Corinthians
5:5 real quickly. 1 Corinthians 5:5
and I'll try to be quick here because
I'm going to be stopped at 30 minutes.
So 1 Corinthians 5:5 says
1 Corinthians 5:5 deliver such a one to
Satan for the destruction of the flesh
that the spirit may be saved in the day
of the Lord Jesus. So it's a context of
a man who is uh not doing the right
thing by his apparently his father's uh
wife and there's immorality such as not
normal and um they are discussing
dysfellowship as we would call it. 1
Timothy 1 20 says of whom are Jimenus
and Alexander whom I've delivered to
Satan that they may learn not to
blasphe. So what does the term
delivering to Satan mean? Because he
uses it twice. He uses it here and then
he uses it in 1 Timothy 1 and verse 20.
Generally understood it means three
things. Okay. The first is the first
goal. If you look at chapter 5 and look
down at verse 7, you'll say, "Therefore,
purge out the old leaven that you may be
a new lump uh since you are unleavened."
So the first goal of this statement of
deliver such a one to Satan is to purge
out the old levan. So the first point of
dysfellowship is to separate yourselves
from the thing that Satan's doing. And
so you want to deliver such and one to
Satan. That's first goal to clean up the
the community of the believers. So you
want to have a holy communion, a holy
convocation, a holy community. So that's
the first point of any kind of
dysfellowship. The second goal about
this thing is to when you deliver such a
one to Satan, it's not for damnation.
That's what it sounds like if you just
read it superficially. That's not what
it is for. It is for a remedy. And how
does delivering one to Satan produce a
remedy? An example of that would be in
Luke 15 11-19.
In Luke 15 is the story of the prodigal
son. And the prodigal son, did the
father let the son go? Yes. Did he even
help him on the way? Yes. What's the
point of allowing his son to go out in
the world and literally give his life to
the devil? The point of it is in verse
19, when he came to himself. You see, if
you're truly exposed to what the devil
can do in a person's life, it can
literally wake you up. A lot of people
have lived in a environment Christians
and live in a Christian environment and
they have never been woken up to how bad
it is out there without us. So without
us, they don't know that. It creates a
remedy within them to go, I could have
had a V8. I could have done differently.
And then the third goal is the
destruction of the flesh is not to cause
literal physical harm to anyone but a
destruction of the sinful disposition.
So by separating yourselves from him the
or her theoretically the disposition
that they took that led to that action
should be to some degree crushed.
it should to some degree uh make the
person thinks I shouldn't be like that
and maybe it will be destroyed. So those
are the three major reasons. Now that
doesn't explain everything there. I'm
sure that there you might have some
further questions and that's great and
the rest of it I'd have to say I don't
know. So the second question,
what does the scripture say about
cremation? Is it wrong?
The real answer is it doesn't say
anything about it really. But let me go
into what the Bible does say. Okay? And
you'll see what I mean by that. There is
a discussion there. Just one verse on
the subject of burning a body. That's
actually one verse in all the Bible. Has
nothing to do with cremation. Okay.
Genesis 50:es 2 and 3. And Joseph
commanded his servants the physicians to
embalm his father. So the phys
physicians embaled Israel. 40 days were
required for him. For such are the days
required for those who are inbalmed. And
the Egyptians mourned for him 70 days.
All right. So you think because I've
never heard of cremation being done,
it's not a topic in the Bible that we
should go the way we normally go, which
is inbalming a body. Well, by the way,
this is a very odd thing. It's not a
normal thing in the scriptures. This is
the odd case out of inbalming somebody.
And by the way, the way the Egyptians do
it was very odd. They took body parts
out of your body, literally kind of
disembowled you in every way. And each
part was kept in a separate container.
So it's a very weird thing. And it takes
it took them about 40 days to do this. A
very strange event. Covered you with all
kinds of things. Now they kept that.
Later you'll find that they put you know
various spices on the body to knock down
the smell but it didn't really inbalm
you as you're thinking. So what it
literally did is helped in the
decomposition. And what happened by the
time of Jesus was they allowed you to
decompose in some grave that's like the
one that Josephus Joseph had that Jesus
is buried in. And so as a result being
buried there, he was going to be allowed
to decompose. After so long, they'd go
in there and take his bones out and put
them in an ouary, which is a box about
that big, because they didn't have any
room to bury everybody. And so they put
you in this little box, what's left of
you, and bury that. Now, that was common
in Jesus day and what most people
happened to them. And but it was just
what happened. It wasn't biblical. There
is no biblical guidelines on burying.
Just take that. The Jews generally
buried you within a day. The Muslims
still bury you within a day. So most of
what y'all are doing outside of what
you've been taught about inbombing has
nothing to do what's taught in the Bible
or what their behaviors or their their
actions were. Now in Genesis 50 25- 26
it says then Joseph took an oath from
the children of Israel saying God will
surely visit you and you shall carry up
my bones from here. So you see that had
already become a part of it. So
basically you're left with just an
aruary of a very dried up individual.
Verse 26. So Joseph died being 110 years
old and they embolmed him and he was put
in a coffin in Egypt. In 2 Chronicles
16:14, here's an unusual case. It says,
"They buried him in his own tomb, which
he had made for himself in the city of
David. And they laid him in the bed
which was filled with spices and various
ingredients prepared in a mixture of
ointments. They made a very great
burning for him." That doesn't mean they
burned him. That means they had fires
outside and they mourned outside for
days is what that's discussing. There is
a case of burning. Here it comes. 1st
Samuel 31:12
All the valiant men rose and traveled
all night and took the body of Saul and
the bodies of his sons from the wall of
Bethshan and they came to Jabesh and
burned them there. Then they took their
bones after they burned them and buried
them under the tamaris tree at Jasbed
Jabesh and fasted seven days. But that's
not the norm. And that was because his
bo their bodies had kind of been
desecrated and hung on a wall and he'd
been decapitated. We don't know what
happened to his head. This is his body.
Revelation 20:13 says, "The sea gave up
the dead which were in it and death and
hades delivered up the dead which were
in them and they were judged each one
according to his works." Here's the
deal. So whatever happens to people in
sea when they die in sea, I assure you
there's not much left when the fish get
through. So the point I'm simply making
is is God knows how to get those people
alive again. It's not a problem. It's
it's we may think it is. So most modern
Christians perspective
um is that it's acceptable to cremate.
That's a perspective. That's not a Bible
concept. Some Christians though want to
stick to the tradition recommending
burial as what they call a more
traditional approach and is expressing
maybe a better way of seeing that there
will be a resurrection. They like that.
There is however no Bible verse that
specifically addresses the subject of
cremation at all. So if you're looking
for me to give you an answer on that, I
cannot give you a Bible answer. There is
none. Uh God does not give any
commandment about burial at all.
You got nothing. So whatever you're
doing has no Bible backing.
You say, "Well, well, this the way we've
always done it." Doesn't matter. You
don't have any scripture on it. We just
making it up as we go along.
And so in the biblical cultures, there
were many different ways of doing it.
And I pointed out a few to you just
then. And that's not the whole of it.
But at least you got an idea. So do what
you think you should do. And I'm going
to do what I think I should do. And it
doesn't have to be the same thing. Yours
will be wrong, but mine will be right.
Number three,
what are the covenants from God to
mankind? Uh Genesis to Revelation. What
are the covenants that we find in the
scriptures? Well, honestly, that's a
kind of a loaded question. Hard to
answer it exactly, but I will go with
eight.
How's that? Give you eight of them. And
I'll walk you through the eight. That's
obvious. You might argue seven,
but eight. First one's with Adam. How do
I know he had a covenant with God? Well,
Hosea told me. Hosea 6 and verse 7 says,
"But like Adam, they have transgressed
the covenant. There they have dealt
treacherously against me." The only time
what Adam had with God is referred to as
a covenant is in Hosea. Not in Genesis,
but it's called that there. Noah
obviously had a covenant. We know that
from Genesis 6 and verse 18. But I will
establish my covenant with you, and you
shall go into the ark, you your sons,
your wife, and your son's wife with you.
That's a covenant. And then there are
other references. A Abraham or Abram uh
had a covenant. Genesis 15:18 first time
it's mentioned. On the same day the Lord
God made a covenant with Abram saying to
your descendants I have given this land
from the river of Egypt to the great
river of the river Euphrates. And so
that's the covenant he first made with
Abram. Then the first uh mention of it
with Moses and it's not specifically
with Moses but it's under Moses. Exodus
19 and verse 5. Now therefore, if you
will indeed obey my voice and keep my
covenant, then you shall be a special
treasure to me above all people, for all
the earth is mine. That's not really
spoken just to Moses, but Moses was the
leader of the group. And it's really
spoken to all Israel, and that was at
Mount Si. Aaron is given a covenant in
Exodus 40:5. And this is an iffy one
here and I mentioned it simply because
the verbiage but it doesn't actually say
covenant. In Exodus 40:15 it says, "You
shall anoint them as you anointed their
father that they may minister to me as
priests for their anointing shall surely
be an everlasting priesthood throughout
their generations." So again that idea
of the everlasting priesthood then
combines with what is announced to
Fininehas in Numbers 25 to suggest that
both of these are considered a covenant.
Numbers 25 11-13 it says this. Fine the
son of Eleazar the son of Aaron the
priest has turned back my wrath from the
children of Israel because he was
zealous with my zeal among them so that
I did not consume the children of Israel
and my zeal. He you remember he killed
the uh guy and the woman. Verse 12,
therefore say, behold, I give to him my
covenant of peace. There's the mention
of a covenant. Verse 13, and it shall be
to him and his descendants after him a
covenant of an everlasting priesthood.
Now, that's the reason it sounds like
when he said to Aaron an everlasting
priesthood, it sounds like a covenant
because it says here, "And I'll give him
a covenant of everlasting priesthood
because he was zealous for his God and
made atonement for the children of
Israel by killing uh that man and that
woman that were involved." Now, David is
given a covenant. In 2 Samuel 23:es 1-5,
it says, "Although my house is not so
with God, yet he has made with me an
everlasting covenant." Uh, of course,
his descendants would be a part of that
which is Jesus ordered in all things and
secure. For this is all my salvation,
all my desire, uh, will he not make its
increase. And then the last one that's
specifically spelled out has in a
covenant is Jesus himself. And I I've
given you several scriptures here. I'll
go to the Hebrews 1. Hebrews 9 and
verse1 15. And for this reason, he is
the mediator of the new covenant by
means of death for the redemption of the
transgression under the first covenant
that those who are called may receive
the promise of the eternal inheritance.
So from the perspective of that text,
there were only two covenants per se
from their perspective. That is the old
covenant and now the new covenant.
Hebrews 13:20. Uh now may the God of
peace who brought up our Lord Jesus from
the dead, that great shepherd of the
sheep through the blood of the
everlasting covenant, which makes that
sound, this last covenant, the one that
lasts forever, which of course it is.
I'm not sure that that answered the
question that was being asked because I
was really struggling with what the
question was asking. Okay, so that's the
best answer I've got. There's been about
eight covenants that are called
covenants through the years, but the
really the two, the old and the new. All
right, so we still got a few minutes.
Let's keep going. According to the
scriptures, this is number next.
According to the scriptures, what is the
great white throne in Revelation? Well,
let's read that text. You might want to
turn in your Bibles. Revelation 20
11-15. And you got to remember now,
we're going to be dealing with
Revelation. Revelation is a symbolically
represented book. It is a prophetic
book. And therefore, taking things all
the time literally in the book of
Revelation is not really a smart thing
to do with this kind of writing. But
let's read it as it says it and then
we'll go back to the Old Testament and
see where some of this imagery comes
from. Revelation 20 11-15. Then I saw a
great white throne, and him who sat on
it, from whose face the earth and heaven
fled away, and there was found no place
for them. We would assume a person
sitting on that throne is the the one
and only true God. Verse 12, and I saw
the dead, small and great, standing
before God, and books were open. So he's
called God there. And books were open,
and another book was open, which is the
book of life. Now, by the way, he didn't
say, and he opened his iPad or his cell
phone, and the dead were judged uh
according to their works, by the things
which are written in the books written,
not type. Okay. Verse 13. The sea gave
up the dead who were in it, and death
and Hades delivered up the dead who were
in them, and they were judged, each one
according to his works. The death and
Hades were cast into the lake of fire.
This is the second death. and anyone not
found written in the book of life was
cast in the lake of fire. Now, if you
really read that the way it sounds, it
sounds like everybody that's being dealt
with right there got cast in the lake of
fire. It doesn't sound like anybody got
saved right there. That's what it sounds
like. He did say that weren't written in
the book of life. So, that leaves an
opening, but it sounds like they all got
cast in the lake of fire when you just
read it roughly. Daniel 7 is where some
of this imagery comes from. Daniel 7 9
and 10. It says, "I watched till thrones
were put in place and the ancient of
days was seated." So it kind of
identifies that uh the father is who's
sitting in that context. It says his
garments. So he doesn't talk about the
throne now, but he says the garment was
white as snow. So that may be what he's
talking about the white throne and the
hair of his head was like pure wool.
Again, white throne, white hair, white
clothes. His throne was a fiery flame.
Its wheels a burning fire. That comes
from Ezekiel. The idea of the spirit of
the divine beings is in wheels. Don't
ask me about that. I have no knowledge.
Verse 10. A fiery stream issued and came
forth from before him. A thousand
thousands ministered to him. A lot of
people, a lot of beings ministered to
him. That means do what he says, I
guess. Let me keep reading. A thousand
thousand ministered to him. 10,000 *
10,000 stood before him. So, this is
talking about like a judgment scene,
which is back to the revelation concept.
10,000 time 10,000 stood before him. The
court was seated and the books were
open. Back to the books, right?
When is this supposed to happen? If
that's the question, I'm not sure
exactly what the question is. It sounds
like a judgment scene to me, and it
sounds very serious to me. And it sounds
like most of the ones being dealt with
are in trouble. But you take it as you
wish. The timing of it is difficult to
arrive at because number one, we don't
know when the end of the world is,
right? I don't know when that's
happening. I don't even know when I'm
checking out. So I a lot of things I
don't know. But John 5:es 28- 29 says
this. Do not marvel at this for the hour
is coming in which all who are in the
graves will hear his voice. Now I was
raised under Gus Nichols and brother
Nichols always said, "Well, all this had
to happen in an hour because it's his
hour."
But that's not really appropriate to say
that because it doesn't mean literally
60 minutes here. I I think that's really
pushing it. It just means a timeline. Uh
there will be a point in time. Verse 29,
and come forth those who've done good to
the resurrection of life and those
who've done evil to the resurrection of
condemnation. And that's significant.
I'm going to go down a path here you
probably won't be comfortable with, but
you're wanting a specific here. And I'm
just trying to go with the text of
Romans, I mean Revelation. So,
Revelation 20:es 5 and 6 has said this.
For the rest of the dead did not live
again until the thousand years were
finished. This is the first
resurrection. So, first resurrection
implies the second resurrection. in
verse 6, which is in the great white
throne. That's what's implied in
Revelation 20. Whether you like it or
not, that's what's implied in that text.
Verse six says, "Blessed and holy is he
as part in the first resurrection over
which the second death has no power. But
they shall be priests of God and Christ
and shall reign with them a thousand
years." Now, I don't want to get into
the thousand year thing. I just simply
want to point out that that's two
resurrections. one where these parted
dead who had given their lives to the
Lord are alive. And then the second one
is when they're all thrown in the lake
of fire, right? Well, then that
coincides with this statement, and this
is what people who make this argument,
which I'm not making, by the way. I'm
just throwing it out so you understand
the confusion behind this. Uh the
resurrection of life and then the
resurrection of condemnation. Is there
any support of that in scripture? Just
the faintest. And that's Philippians 3
and 11. And Philippians 3 and 11 is a
very interesting statement that Paul
makes because it's very kind of crude in
the Greek. But he says um he he wants to
be so much like Christ. He wants to have
the fellowship of his suffering if by
any means he says I may obtain to the
resurrection from the dead. Now the if
you read that directly
it can be translated like this. Uh the
Brian literal Bible actually says this.
If by any means I may attain to the
resurrection from out of the dead. The
way that I've been taught that it can be
read is the out resurrection from among
the dead. Again
those people who think these two
different resurrections are going to
take place. one before the thousand
years, one after the thousand years
after Satan is defeated. All of that
support those two different concepts.
I'm not going there because personally,
I don't understand the book of
Revelation at all. I'm glad all y'all
do, but I don't understand it. And
there's very little in the book of
Revelation I do understand. And I
thought when I was young, and I'll tell
you the secret now. When I was young, I
was so upset with all you brethren that
couldn't get your head together on the
book of Revelation that I thought I'm
going to write the pinup penultimate
explanation of the book of Revelation
when I get older. And the more I've
studied it, the more I'm convinced y'all
were as confused as I was. And so I
don't know what he's talking about.
I don't know what this is about. And if
you do, God bless you. And that's the
real truth. So, what is the great white
throne and all of that exactly about? I
don't know. There you go. Hope that
makes you happy.
All right, next question.
Y'all happy with that? No. I can see
looks on your face like, I don't like
the way you answered that. Good. You
answer it next time. Okay, here we are.
Number next. John 9:31.
John 9:31. If we believers are in sin,
that means basically we're sinners. So
believers commit sin, too. I think
that's what the question here means. If
we believers are in sin, does God not
hear hear us? And how this applies to
unbelievers? So go to John chapter 9
quickly. John chapter nine. I don't know
how much time I got. John chapter nine
because I'm going to quit it. 30
minutes. Okay. John chapter nine. when
fingers go up here in just a minute.
John chapter nine and look at verse 31.
Now,
let's read it quickly.
It says, "Now we know that God does not
hear sinners, but if anyone is a
worshshiper of God and does his will, he
hears him." So the man answered and said
to them, "Why this is a marvelous thing
that you do not know." So that was
spoken by Jesus. It was spoken by the
man who had been healed. Right? Now,
here's the interesting thing about the
man who had been healed. If you go back
to chapter 9 and look down at verse one
and two, here's what you find. Now, as
Jesus passed by, he saw a man who was
blind from birth. So, he'd been blind
all of his life, born blind. Terrible
situation. Verse two, and his disciples
asked him, saying, "Rabbi, who sinned
this man or his parents that he was born
blind?" Now, you got to understand that
they truly believed that bad things
happen to bad people and good things
happen to good people. And so, as a
result, if you're born blind, somebody
did something wrong, right? That that's
what that meant. Okay? So, there's some
kind of sin here. Well, they believe
that, too. If you go down to I mean, the
leaders of the people go to verse 34 and
they answered after he said this to
them, they answered back. They answered
and said to him, "You were completely
born in sins, and are you teaching us?"
And they cast him out. They kicked him
out of the synagogue that he dared argue
with their position. So they truly
believed he was born blind because he
was born in sin. So his parents either
sinned or he sinned or he was going to
sin and that's the reason and such a bad
man that this bad thing happened to him.
Right? That's what they believe. Well,
there's a problem with a lot of that
theology. There's some serious problems.
Let me give you some things to chew on.
Is it Is it time? Oh, well, I was quick.
No, let me finish this one real quick.
I'll try to finish this question. So,
Job 27 8 and 9. Job says this. For what
is the hope of the hypocrite? Though he
may gain much, if God takes away his
life, will God hear his cry when trouble
comes upon him? And then Job 35 12 and
13. This is Eli who said this. Then they
cry out, but he does not answer because
of the pride of evil men. Surely God
will not listen to empty talk, nor will
the Almighty regard it. This also comes
from Proverbs 15 and verse 29. The Lord
is far from the wicked, but he hears the
prayer of the righteous. Isaiah puts it
this way. Isaiah 1:15, "When you spread
out your hands, I will hide my eyes from
you, even though you make many prayers,
I will not hear. Your hands are full of
blood." So yes, God doesn't hear the
wicked. However, in Matthew 5 and verse
45, it says this, "That you may be sons
of your father in heaven, for he makes
his son rise on the evil and on the
good, and sends rain on the just and on
the unjust." Does God only do good
things for good people and he does bad
things to bad people? No. He does good
things to everybody. And everybody gets
a taste of some of the rough things
here.  In Luke 11:3 says this,
"If you you being evil," what a comment
on all of us, right? You being evil know
how to give good gifts to your children,
how much more will your heavenly father
give the Holy Spirit to those who ask
him? So evil people can ask God to give
him the Holy Spirit and he does. Well,
it just means you're a sinner. It
doesn't mean that you're so putrid that
God can't deal with you. Back to what
was actually said in John 9 and 31. A
worshipper of God is pleasing and God
hears their prayer. That's why we have
in Acts chapter 10:es 1-6, there was a
certain man in Cesaria called Cornelius,
a centurion of what was called the
Italian regiment, a devout man and one
who feared God. So, he's devout. He
feared God with all his household. Now,
did he sin? Yes, he sinned. Was he a man
that needed to be forgiven? Yes, he was.
But he was a devout man and one who
feared God with all of his household.
And he means the Lord God that we serve,
not some
idol who gave alms generously to the
people and prayed to God always. Now,
was he right with God? No, he was not.
He's a gentile. He had not been
forgiven. He was a sinner, but he prayed
to God always. Verse three, about the
ninth hour of the day, he saw clearly in
a vision an angel of God coming in and
saying to him, Cornelius, I've never had
an angel come in the bedroom that I know
of. Okay, so this is way above me. Verse
four. And  when he observed him,
he was afraid. I would have been too.
And said, "What is it, Lord?" So he said
to him, "Your prayers, this sinner,
Gentiles prayers, your prayers and your
alms, your gifts of goodness to other
people. Your prayers and your alms have
come up for a memorial before God. God's
paid attention. God saw what you were
doing." But he's a sinner, Lord. Yes.
Verse five. Now send men to Japa and
send for Simon whose surname is Peter.
He is lodging with Simon a tanner whose
house is by the sea. He will tell you
what you must do. So he was not right.
He had to get right with God. And yet
God hadn't heard him. First John 1 8
and9 we are all sinners. Back to the
question which asked basically us who
are believers. Does God hear us? You
know, because if we're believers and
we're in sin, first John 1:es 8 and9. If
we say that we have no sin, we deceive
ourselves and the truth is not in us. If
you think you're not sinful today and in
need of God's forgiveness, you're lying
to yourself. Listen to the rest of this.
If we confess our sins, he is faithful
and just to forgive us our sins and
cleanse us from all unrighteousness.
What are you talking about? when you
pray about it, Lord, please forgive me.
So, the idea that God doesn't hear at
all people who sin, that's not what John
9:31's talking about. It's talking about
a person in absolute rebellion. And when
you're in absolute rebellion against
God, he's not going to listen to you and
do what you ask. Okay, that is all we're
going to have time for tonight because
somebody raised their hand wants to get
out here early and that was Keegan. I
won't tell anyone.
Not everyone wants answers.
Uh some only want to believe what they
think.
Not everyone by the way does um wants to
know about you.
So not everybody wants answers,
but not everybody wants to know about
you. That's something to remember when
you're in a conversation and you feel
compelled to tell them everything that's
going on in your life.
Not everyone wants to know about you,
but they want to believe whatever they
want to believe about you.
Now, not everybody feels that way, but
some want to believe whatever they want
to believe about you. Just like some
people don't want the answers. They just
want to believe whatever they want to
believe. So, some people want to believe
whatever they want to believe about
this, and some want to believe whatever
they want to believe about you. That's
just the way it is. I'd call them a
diminisher.
I've noticed along the way of life that
some people are much better at seeing
people than others are.
In any collection of humans, there are
diminishers
and there's eliminators. Diminishers
make you feel insignificant.
You don't matter.
They kind of stereotype and label us.
If you learn anything about them,
they simply proceed to make a series of
assumptions about you. They really don't
want to know the truth. They just want
to believe whatever they want to believe
about you.
Illuminators on the other hand,
illuminators, they have a persistent
curiosity about other people. They want
to get to know you. They're asking
questions because they really want to
know. And they actually stop talking to
hear your answer.
You stop talking. Stop talking to hear
their answer. They've been trained or
have trained themselves somehow in the
craft of understanding others. They know
how to ask the right questions at the
right time so they can see things, so
they can understand you, so that they
can get a little insight into your
world, into your life, because they
actually care about you. They really
want to see life from a different point
of view than their own. They're a little
surprised that things can be seen
differently.
They shine the brightness of their care
on people
that make them end up feeling bigger and
better and more respected. And that's
the conversation you want to walk away
from. And when you walk away from
somebody, you don't feel diminished,
but you feel illuminated.
Don't you just love it when you walk
away and you feel like somebody's
actually heard you?
Don't you love that?
Biographer of the novelist Ian Forester
wrote this talking about such a person,
an eliminator, uh, illuminator, excuse
me, of joy, the person you really want
to be around, that kind of person.
Here's what he said. To speak with him
or her gives you a sense of being
listened to with such intensity
that you had to be your most honest,
your sharpest,
and your best self.
I want to be an illuminator, don't you?
I don't want to be a diminisher.
So, I'm afraid same thing applies the
Bible and studying the Bible. Sometimes
people study the Bible to find out what
it says. Some people study the Bible to
find out what they want it to say.
Which one are you?
And how do you talk to your brother? Do
you listen? Do you stop long enough to
listen?
How are you doing?
What's going on with you? Questions are
wonderful. I think having question
answer wonderful. But the most important
questions and answers are in these
little conversations we have with each
other when we really want to know.
When we really care about each other,
listen.
Ask, but listen to the answer. And don't
be so focused on getting quickly to what
you want to say next.
Amen.
That's wasn't very loud amen, but I'm
grateful for what I got. If you're here
tonight and you haven't given your life
to the Lord, this will be a good
opportunity. Won't you come while we
stand and while we sing?
