Hey, how's it going?
&gt;&gt; Doing good. Good.
Excited.
&gt;&gt; Me, too. We'll see how it goes.
All right, good morning.
Let's go ahead and get started.
So, as most you know, uh my wife and I
are are fairly new to Creekide. So, I
want to say a couple things. First of
all, I'll just admit I'm going to really
struggle to remember people's names. So,
if I if I through the course of uh our
class, if I call on you, but don't say
your name, uh don't take it personal,
I'm going to do that to everybody so
that nobody knows whose names I actually
remember and whose names I don't, which
is even playing field. Um, but uh but I
do also want to take this time to say in
in the time my wife and I and our three
boys have been here, we really
appreciate
how wonderful everybody has been to us,
how welcoming everyone has been. Uh, and
and we just really are thankful for
that. So, thank you so much for that.
And I appreciate this opportunity. I'm
thankful to Brother Lou uh for for
allowing me to teach. Um, we are going
to have this class for the rest of July
and then the month of August and then
after that our class schedule will be
back on track. So, we'll be here uh July
and August on Sundays.
And I appreciate everyone being here.
Um, this this class I've titled it all
scriptures profitable. And as you can
see, uh, the the subtitle, finding value
in Old Testament texts that seem
irrelevant today. So, uh, maybe by
looking at that, uh, you've you've seen
that there might be some pretty
challenging things we're going to talk
about, especially things that are
challenging because
they seem boring
or they seem they seem not useful. Uh,
and so I applaud you being willing to
come into a class where that's the
premise. Uh, as opposed to something
with a really exciting title, you know,
that that you just know, oh, this is
going to be amazing. Uh, this this may
be a little bit of an intimidating
title, but that's intentional. Uh, and
so I've I've titled it all scripture is
profitable. And that's because of Paul's
words to Timothy in second Timothy where
Paul says all scripture is profitable.
So I want to go to that passage here in
2 Timothy 3 starting in verse 14.
Paul says to Timothy, "But as for you,
continue in what you have learned and
have firmly believed, knowing from whom
you learned it, and how from childhood
you have been acquainted with the sacred
writings which are able to make you wise
for salvation through faith in Christ
Jesus. All scripture is breathed out by
God and profitable for teaching, for
reproof, for correction, and for
training in righteousness, that the man
of God may be complete, equipped for
every good work.
This passage is so important because
it's a passage of scripture that talks
about scripture itself. And so, here's
how Paul describes scripture. He says
these sacred writings are able to make
you wise. You gain wisdom from them. And
he says that wisdom leads to salvation
through Jesus. And and scripture is
breathed out from God. It comes from God
the way a breath comes from someone. And
he says it's profitable.
There's a practical benefit to it. It is
useful. It is valuable.
and valuable for what? Well, Paul says
it's it's for teaching, for reproving,
for correcting, for training in
righteousness.
Those are the reasons we we have
scripture. It's to be used for those
purposes. And so, what's the end goal?
Well, Paul says that the man of God may
be complete,
equipped for every good work.
Complete meaning you have what you need.
You are lacking nothing. Equipped. You
are You have it. You are ready to use
it. You are ready to use it for good
works. That's how Paul describes
scripture. So, is it enough just to read
scripture?
No. Is it enough just to know scripture?
Even if you've memorized the entire
Bible, is is that enough just to know
it? No. That's not enough. It's not just
knowledge for the sake of knowledge.
And it's certainly not memorization
just as some indicator of our faith.
We're very faithful because we have
things memorized. That's not enough. God
through Paul said it would do something
for you. It would do something to you.
And I want to make this point.
Profitable
doesn't always mean pleasant,
right? I mean, there are plenty of ways
where scripture and the things we learn
from scripture and the way that
scripture molds us, it's not pleasant.
There are plenty of passages that are
encouraging and are pleasant. But there
are pl plenty of passages that are hard,
that are challenging,
that maybe are teaching us and telling
us things we don't want to learn,
telling us to do things we don't want to
do, but it's still profitable because
it's shaping us and molding us into
Jesus.
And so that's very important to
understand.
I also want to make this point.
When Paul said this to Timothy,
yes, he says all scripture,
but what did Paul specifically have in
mind when he said this to Timothy?
It's not the New Testament because at
this time, not all the New Testament had
been written or or circulated around.
And it certainly wasn't what Timothy as
a young boy was learning as he was
growing up. In Paul's mind, what he
primarily is thinking is the Old
Testament. Those are the writings that
Timothy learned growing up. Now,
certainly any new scriptures that are
written and new scriptures that God
gives to man also then this description
would fit those. But my point is just if
all scriptur is profitable, the ironic
thing is Paul had in mind primarily when
he said this the Old Testament and
there's so much of the Old Testament
that we don't know or even if we know
it, we don't know why it's profitable.
And so I want to I want to just pause
here and do some really easy class
participation. I'm going to ask for a
show of hands. How many of you
How many of you agree and believe Paul's
statement here that all scripture is
profitable? By a show of hands.
I think I see almost all the hands up. I
see some of the faces that are thinking,
"This seems like a trick question." And
let me assure you, it was a trick
question. Now that I've lured you into
my trap to agreeing that all scripture
is profitable,
let's look at some passages from the Old
Testament.
Genesis 369-14.
These are the generations of Esau, the
father of the in the hill
country of Seir. These are the names of
Esau's sons. Elephaz, the son of Adah,
the wife of Esau. Ruel, the son of
Basmath, the wife of Esau. The sons of
Elephaz were Teman, Omar, Zeo, Gatam,
and Canaz. Timna was a concubine of
Elephaz, Esau's son. She bore Amalecch
to Elephaz. These are the sons of Adah,
Esau's wife. These are the sons of Ruel,
Nahhath, Zarah, Shama, and Misah. These
are the sons of Basmath, Esau's wife.
These are the sons of Ohai, Bama, the
daughter of Anna, the daughter of
Zibian, Esau's wife. She bore to Esau
Jush, Jalam, and Kora.
How about another passage? Numbers 1. It
should say 20 to 24, I believe. Numbers
one. The people of Reuben, Israel's
firstborn, their generations, by their
clans, by their father's houses,
according to the number of names, head
by head, every male from 20 years old
and upward, all who were able to go to
war. Those listed of the tribe of Reuben
were 46,500.
Of the people of Simeon, their
generations, by their clans, by their
father's houses, those of them who were
listed, according to the number of
names, head by head, every male from 20
years old and upward, all who were able
to go to war, those listed of the tribe
of Simeon were 59,300.
of the people of Gad, their generations,
by their clans, by their father's
houses. According to the number of the
names, from 20 years old and upward, all
who were able to go to war, those listed
of the tribe of Gad were 45,650.
Let's go to First Kings. This is a
description of Solomon building the
temple.
Around all the walls of the house,
Solomon carved engraved figures of
cherubam and palm trees and open flowers
in the inner and outer rooms. The floor
of the house he overlaid with gold in
the inner and outer rooms. For the
entrance to the inner sanctuary, he made
doors of olivewood. The lentil and the
doorposts were five-sided. He covered
the two doors of olivewood with carvings
of cherubam, palm trees, and open
flowers. He overlaid them with gold and
spread gold on the cherubam and on the
palm trees. So also he made for the
entrance to the nave doorpost of
olivewood in the form of a square and
two doors of cypress wood. The two
leaves of the one door were folding and
the two leaves of the other door were
folding. On them he carved cherubam and
palm trees and opened flowers and he
overlaid them with gold evenly applied
on the carved work. He built the inner
court with three courses of cut stone
and one course of cedar beams.
One more. Leviticus 13 1-4. The Lord
spoke to Moses and Aaron, saying, "When
a person has on the skin of his body a
swelling or an eruption or a spot, and
it turns into a case of lepous disease
on the skin of his body, then he shall
be brought to Aaron the priest, or to
one of his sons, the priest. And the
priest shall examine the diseased area
on the skin of his body. And if the hair
in the diseased area has turned white
and the disease appears to be deeper
than the skin of his body, it is a case
of lepous disease. When the priest has
examined him, he shall pronounce him
unclean. But if the spot is white in the
skin of his body and appears no deeper
than the skin and the hair in it has not
turned white, the priest shall shut up
the diseased person for seven days.
All scripture is profitable.
We've just looked at four passages of
scripture. I know we haven't studied
them, but we've read through them.
Do you feel more equipped because of
that? Do you feel like you've profited
from looking at those that you can take
that and use that in your lives?
I think if we're honest, we have to
admit there are some passages
that seem irrelevant.
They don't seem
important.
They don't seem necessary
for a Christian today in their walk with
Christ as a disciple of Christ. They
don't seem like they really can be used
or if they can be used doesn't really
seem like we need to use them.
But Paul says the opposite. God through
Paul says the opposite. He says all
scripture is profitable. And so what
often can happen
is we ask this question, how is this
profitable?
How is this profitable? and we just sort
of say, well, it's profitable because
it's God's word. And you know, if it's
God's word, then it's profitable. We're
just sort of stuck in this circular
reasoning, but we can't really explain
why it's profitable.
Or maybe sometimes we just sort of
instead of explaining why it's
profitable, we just state facts about
it. Well, it's profitable because that
was a law that God gave them. or it's
profitable because
you know that was a really important
part of of the Israelites everyday life
and so they had to you know they had to
to know that or it's profitable because
well th those are the materials that
that Solomon used to build the temple
you know it's like well those are just
facts about it you're just stating what
it is
but sort of leaving out why it's
profitable
or maybe sometimes we can we can
describe it in a way we can think of a
reason why it is valuable.
But it's kind of a shallow answer. You
know, well, this is profitable because
these are commands from God and they had
to follow them and we also have commands
from God. We have to follow them. Well,
that's true.
There's not a lot of depth in that
though, right? and and that lesson is
found all throughout the Bible. But then
you encounter these passages of tons of
text,
you know, and you think, is that all
we're supposed to get out of it? Is it,
well, those are commands and we've got
commands. Is that it? Or is there
something more that we're missing?
I firmly believe
that some of these passages
that seem irrelevant
hold some of the deepest value for
Christians today
and that some of these passages that
just don't seem useful, even seem pretty
boring and unnecessary.
those very passages, those very texts
can equip us with priceless teaching for
our lives.
The goal of this class over the next
month and a half, the goal of this class
is to examine some of these sections of
scripture and to find that value, to
find the value that Paul was telling
Timothy about.
That's our goal. I hope we're able to
achieve that goal. So, I know some of
you, this is the big question you're
wondering. What specifically are we
going to talk about? So, here's the
topics.
Genealogies.
Specifically, the genealogies in
Genesis.
Uh, we're going to look at the the
details of the tabernacle. In the book
of Exodus, it doesn't just say the
tabernacle was built. There's a lot of
description of the materials they used
to build the tabernacle and how they
built it. There's tons of description
there. And so, we're going to look at
that.
Also, some of the some of the laws the
Israelites had regarding ritual
cleanliness, ritual purity.
A lot of that we look at and we just
don't even understand what it's talking
about. Or even if we do understand it,
we think,
"Wasn't this done away with? Why? Why do
we even need to still know this? So,
we're going to look at some of those
laws in Leviticus. Also, the historical
accounts in the Bible often are
challenging. And we're going to look at
first and 2 Chronicles because when you
look at 1 and 2 Chronicles, there's just
tons of description of historically
these are the events.
And often we scratch our heads and
think, okay,
you know, why is that there? Especially
because we've already got first and
second Kings, right? And so often people
think, isn't this sort of a retelling of
the same stuff? Seems repetitive. Why do
we have this? We're going to look at
that. And then also, I chose one of the
minor prophets. This is one of my
favorite minor prophets. The book of
Nahm talks about the downfall of
Assyria.
Why in the world would a Christian today
care about the downfall of Assyria?
But as I've said throughout a lot of
this, there are profound lessons in that
passage of scripture, that book of
scripture. And so, we're going to look
at that. Uh, I'll pause now. Any any
thoughts? Any questions about this whole
this whole idea of all scripture being
profitable? Anything I've said? Any any
questions or thoughts at all?
&gt;&gt; Yes.
&gt;&gt; I don't know how to put this. The
average
um
through the Old Testament, you had the
regular lines and then you welcome you
had the high priest, the Levites,
and uh What's a lot of this more
important
scribes? We're talking about knowing
well this exactly knew it. I'm not
saying they lived it, but they actually
knew it. So, is it
equally profitable for all?
&gt;&gt; So, that's a good question. Is it
equally profitable for all Christians or
is there some value for teachers?
uh that wouldn't necessarily be true of
all of all Christians. The way in the
Old Testament you see well the the
priests, the Levites, they seem to have
have been given more instructions than
the average Israelite. Uh that's an
interesting question. I think my answer
to that would be there are in the Old
Testament there are more commands given
to the priests and the Levites than the
general Israelite.
But the general Israelite,
though they may not have had to follow
all the commands specifically for the
priests, for the Levites, um especially
some related to maybe what scribes would
do, they they weren't necessarily
supposed to follow all of those, but
they were given it to know it and it was
read to them and taught to them. And so
I think the same thing is true uh for
for us. It's sort of similar to what Rex
did this morning. There are there are
commands given to uh the appointment of
elders. commands given to the
appointment of elders. And this is what
elders are supposed to be. And you may
think, okay, well then that really
applies more to these men that are going
to be elders. But but what Rex pointed
out is, well, these are also important
lessons for everyone to know for a
couple reasons. One, it's not just,
well, elders are the only ones that are
supposed to manage their households. as
well. Elders are the only ones that are
supposed to teach or be hospitable. Also
things that apply to everyone, but also
the group is supposed to know that. So
the group can ensure the elders are
following that. And so the same thing is
true in the Old Testament. I think the
Israelites were supposed to all hear and
learn and know the commands of God so
that even if it didn't directly apply to
them, they could make sure the priests
and the Levites are being held
accountable for what they were supposed
to do. And so I think that's what Paul's
doing with Timothy. He's saying all
scripture is profitable knowing that
Timothy has benefited from it from his
upbringing. But also Timothy is going to
be teaching. He's going to be an
evangelist. He's going to be taking this
knowledge, taking this value and
presenting it to the people. So, is that
does that answer your question?
&gt;&gt; Okay. All right. Good thought though.
That is good. All right. Anything else?
Yes.
was bought by Lois. It was going to the
entire family itself.
That's the education as to how people
were born.
Oh yeah, you're talking about his his
his mother and grandmother were teaching
him.
Got it. Okay, that's true. Yeah, that is
good. is that Timothy was taught this by
his mother and grandmother
and so they were teaching it down to him
and Timothy could take that and then
teach it out to everyone else and so it
would it would be something that was
beneficial from the the family itself
was beneficial uh in that way.
All right. So let's let's
start with our first topic
genealogies.
And typically
these aren't the passages, right, that
are crocheted on pillows and, you know,
a nice beautiful painting on someone's
wall in their house with this, you know,
in calligraphy written.
Uh, and often these just aren't given, I
think, fair treatment when we read
through the Bible.
Genealogies, they're not just Bible
trivia.
There is trivia in there. I mean, there
are interesting facts in there, but it's
not just, oh, look, here's a genealogy,
and oh, this guy was a second cousin to
Abraham. Cool.
Or, oh, look, according to this
genealogy, Methuselah was the oldest man
in the Bible. Those things are there,
but there's more than that. And they're
not just history for the sake of
history. You know, it's not just, well,
the genealogy is there to tell us what
everyone's name is and to tell us what
the names of the the guy's kids were.
It's more than that.
And genealogies aren't disconnected from
the surrounding
stories. And this is huge.
Often, if you're like me, you've done
this before. You're reading through the
Bible and you get to a chapter that has
a genealogy and you think, "Okay, let me
let me get through this so I can get
back to the real story." Right? That's
the opposite of what it's there for.
It's not meant to be like that. On the
contrary, genealogies are included
because of their spiritual significance
to the narrative.
And this is true of every genealogy in
the Bible. If you encounter one, it was
purposely placed there because of its
spiritual value to what's being talked
about in the narrative.
And if we had time to go through every
single one, we could see that there's a
reason why the author said, and now I'll
have a genealogy here
because theologically, spiritually,
it it means something to what the book
itself or the letter itself is talking
about.
And so, we're going to look at that.
Specifically though in Genesis
we have genealogies and there's there's
a ton of them, right? It kind of seems
like Moses when he wrote and crafted the
book of Genesis, he used the genealogies
as the way of organizing the book that
he has a genealogy lists the names and
that sort of introduces then the
narratives that follow. And then you get
to another genealogy, it lists the names
and then sort of introduces the
narrative that follows.
But I think as most of us know,
genealogies are a list usually of of the
fathers and sons. Not always, but
genealogies are a list of the family
names, the family lines and the
descendants that someone has. And
sometimes they have a little bit more
information than that, but that's
generally what what is happening. Well,
with Genesis,
why is there so much emphasis
on family lines and descendants? You
know, it's not just one genealogy. I
mean, as you can see here, like there's
a bunch. There's a ton of genealogies.
Why is there so much emphasis on family
lines and the children of somebody and
the descendants throughout the family
line?
What we have to do
is look at the overall context of
Genesis.
We have to look at the story of Genesis
as a whole. Especially what happened
before these genealogies started in the
book.
The genealogies
are not just a list of the people who
lived.
They are a list of the people who lived
and died,
which means they connect back to the
fall,
the fall of man. And specifically,
genealogies connect back to this
conversation.
Genesis 3. And the woman said to the
serpent, "We may eat of the fruit of the
trees in the garden." But God said, "You
shall not eat of the fruit of the tree
that is in the midst of the garden,
neither shall you touch it, lest you
die."
But the serpent said to the woman,
"You will not surely die."
And then throughout the rest of the book
of Genesis, you have genealogies listing
who lived and who died.
Every genealogy in Genesis is a
billboard screaming, "God was right."
And every genealogy is a billboard
screaming, "Satan is a liar and a
murderer."
And there's the proof. He said, "You
will not surely die." And look at all
the people who have lived and died.
That is such a valuable lesson for us to
take away from this.
Satan tempted Eve and she ate.
And she gave some to Adam who was with
her and he ate too.
And sin and death entered the world just
like God said it would.
And this is especially emphasized if you
turn to Genesis 5.
This genealogy especially in Genesis 5.
This genealogy really emphasizes this
point because unlike a lot of the other
ones in Genesis 5, over and over and
over again, it has the same phrase. Look
at Genesis 5
in verse one. This is the book of the
generations of Adam. When God created
man, he made him in the likeness of God.
Male and female he created them and he
blessed them and named them man when
they were created. When Adam had lived
130 years, he fathered a son in his in
his own likeness, after his image, and
named him Seth. The days of Adam after
he fathered Seth were 800 years, and he
had other sons and daughters. Thus, all
the days that Adam lived were 930 years,
and he died. When Seth had lived 105
years, he fathered Enosh. Seth lived
after he fathered Enoshund 87 years and
had other sons and daughters. Thus, all
the days of Seth were 912 years and he
died.
Chapter 5's genealogy repeats that over
and over again. And he died. There's no
need for that, right? Of of course he
died, right? Like nobody's questioning
that. But it's making a spiritual point.
This is right after God said, "You will
die if you eat from the tree." And it's
after God said, "From dust you came,
from dust you shall return."
And then you have this list of that very
thing happening.
And I'll just point out there is an
exception. And most of you, I think,
know that. Wait a minute. You get to
Enoch and there's an exception to that
death. And I think what's happening
there is there's a hint that right, but
God's not bound by death. He has the
power to overthrow it. And so there's a
little glimpse of that hope in the man
Enoch that will be fleshed out
throughout the rest of the Bible. God's
power over death. But one of the general
points is everyone's dying. Everyone's
dying just like God said.
And so in our Christian walk,
every Christian has to believe God's
warnings. God's warnings about
punishment.
And likewise, in whatever we're doing,
Paul says that scripture will equip us
for every good work. While we're being
equipped for every good work, one of the
things we need to understand is Satan is
going to offer us lies that we want to
believe instead of believing God. It
happened with Eve
and it happens with us. Satan continues
to do that. And genealogies are a
reminder of that lesson. Satan lies,
but God is trustworthy.
Any
thoughts on on that point? I have one
more point I want to make about the
genealogy genealogies in Genesis, but
any thoughts about any of that that
we've said so far,
&gt;&gt; right? Yeah.
&gt;&gt; How long?
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah. So yeah, there's a lot of um
Robert was talking about the um the
length of time that that's being
described when it lists the ages. Um and
so yeah, there are there are as far as
the length of time, a lot of things like
that where well this genealogy also is
helpful because of this or because of
this or because of this. There's
probably other other things you all have
in mind too as to things you've gotten
from genealogies uh that are really
helpful for us today.
a beginning and an end,
&gt;&gt; right?
&gt;&gt; For example,
&gt;&gt; so we're following the line
here. So these are the people that we
want to show that connect.
&gt;&gt; Oh yeah, that's a great point. showing
that, okay, there's there's tons of
people that that lived and died, but
these people are being listed. And so, I
like the way you said that it it's
showing a starting point, an ending
point for a specific reason. And I think
that's that's going to relate to a later
class we have where we talk about the
the history in the Bible is always
selective history. It's not just, well,
here's what happened because a lot of
things happened, but why is the author
describing how these things happened?
And so the same thing in the
genealogies, it's these specific people
whose family lines are being traced, you
know, and the big question is why those
people? And that's what that's what you
see as you read throughout the rest of
the Bible as to why why that line why
those people are chosen. Yeah. So it's
it's also used as part of the the
storytelling aspect of of Genesis. Yeah.
All right. So another point I want to
make
is Sorry, one second.
So I want to I want to make this point
back to the same question.
Why so much emphasis on family lines,
descendants?
Just there's just a lot lot written, a
lot of names, a lot of descendants. Why
is that?
Well, it's because they connect back to
something else God said.
Something else God said after sin
occurred.
Genesis 3:15, this is what God says to
the serpent.
I will put enmity between you and the
woman and between your offspring and her
offspring.
He shall bruise your head, and you shall
bruise his heel.
When God pronounces this curse on the
serpent,
how did God say he was going to defeat
the serpent?
I don't mean who, I mean how, what
method did God say he would use to
defeat the serpent?
Childbirth.
He says the offspring of woman will
bruise the head of the serpent.
And so if God is identifying, I will
bring down the serpent through the
offspring that are born from woman. Do
you see why genealogies then are so
relevant throughout the book of Genesis?
We are reading about the offspring that
are being born from Eve and the
offspring that are born and they
continue down through the years. And
these are a reminder
of God's promise that he would defeat
the serpent through the offspring of
woman. They're very relevant. It's not
okay. Well, here's historically some
names. Let's get back to the story. It's
an integral part of the story.
Imagine that you're reading Genesis for
the first time. It's difficult for us
because well, we know we know the
gospel, so we know so much of how it
ends. But imagine just reading Genesis
trying to sort of put away what you know
and just look at it. You would be
waiting. Okay, the offspring of woman
will bring about the downfall of the
serpent. Here's the genealogy. Is it
happening yet? No, not yet. Keep
reading. More offspring are born. More
offspring are born. When will God bring
about this downfall of the serpent? All
of that is connected.
But here's what's interesting.
If you read through Genesis,
you you've heard that God said, "I will
I will bruise the head of the serpent
through the offspring of woman." And you
see these genealogies that are a
reminder of that.
But you don't actually see it happen in
Genesis,
right? You see a lot of offspring born,
but you don't see God crushing the head
of the serpent. You don't see someone
born that crushes the head of the
serpent.
And so what the genealogies also are
doing,
they're teaching us that though God has
made promises
and that God is trustworthy while the
serpent lies,
man still has to wait for God.
And that's what we need to understand.
These genealogies, they are emphasizing
it hasn't happened yet. There are
offspring born from Adam and Eve, but
but Cain and Abel are not the ones that
defeat the serpent.
Then there are other sons and daughters
born and others and others and others,
and it hasn't happened yet.
The the reader of Genesis would be
waiting when will God do it? When will
he do this? And though Genesis does
start to specify,
well, it'll come through the specific
offspring of not just woman, but the
offspring of Abraham,
though that is mentioned, so we get a
little bit more specification there.
Abraham doesn't bring down the serpent.
And Abraham's children and
grandchildren, they don't bring down the
serpent. They don't crush the head of
the serpent. In fact, Genesis ends
with a lot of offspring born from
Abraham,
but without that promise of God coming
true yet.
And that is such a good lesson for us.
We need to understand
that if we're going to be complete and
equipped for every good work, we have to
wrestle with the fact that God has made
us promises
and they haven't all come true yet or
they've only partially come true, but
not fully come true. Nathan just did a
class on resurrection, bodily
resurrection. Isn't that a promise?
Isn't that one of the promises that God
has made to his people that we're still
waiting for?
And genealogies are showing us that that
God's promises are fulfilled in his time
when he decides. And God's people must
wait on that. And that's so important
because waiting is challenging.
Waiting on God can lead to impatience.
There are countless people
that are waiting on the resurrection and
and are struggling with impatience.
Maybe because of their bodies and the
infirmities of their bodies. Maybe
because they've lost loved ones and
they're waiting for the resurrection.
That waiting on God is challenging and
that can make us vulnerable. And that
can allow doubts to creep in.
And that's where Satan then can present
us a lie like he did to Eve. A lie that
we want to believe instead.
But we need to remember what those
genealogies show us. Satan's a liar.
Satan's a murderer.
The fact that there are genealogies of
those who have died prove that God is
the trustworthy one and not the serpent.
Any thoughts about that?
When you take Israel at that time
machine to show what was going on
very important so that you can recognize
things and that's one of the even though
they knew
if you don't recognize
&gt;&gt; right yeah great point and I like I like
that it it makes it so satisfying when
you've looked at genealogy ies and and
you relate it back to what God said in
Genesis about the downfall of the
serpent. It makes it so satisfying when
you get the New Testament and you get to
Matthew's genealogy
where he connects Jesus to Abraham
and then you get to Luke and Luke
connects Jesus to Adam through a
genealogy.
And now you're starting to see the
fulfillment of everything that Genesis
was talking about and hinting about and
foreshadowing. And then you get to see
then what Jesus accomplishes and the
true downfall of death itself.
&gt;&gt; Right there sparks an idea just how
important genealogies are also to
um
remind us how important our individual
lives are and the
decisions that we make like you
mentioning Matthew. Um
Ruth may not have seen herself. Yeah,
&gt;&gt; that's particularly very important in a
certain situation
when you come down to the fact that she
is Christ.
&gt;&gt; Yeah.
&gt;&gt; That genealogy. Uh but the decisions she
made were so crucial which may not have
seemed that big in her mind, but the big
picture was you. Uh so just how I mean
genealogies can show or to God's
promises
even the decisions that we might
personally make in our lives can impact
lives from us later down.
&gt;&gt; Oh yeah. Yeah. Great point. Yeah. uh the
idea that genealogies
genealologies are showing this big
picture but you're seeing individual
people even like was mentioned like Ruth
like seemingly a small person in the
scheme of things and yet Ruth is
mentioned and and she's connected to
King David connected to Jesus and you
see the value of an individual person I
think I think that's a great lesson from
genealogies is that they do highlight
though Ruth herself may not have
understood at the time why she's sees
anyone interesting or valuable, her
decisions,
her her significance is displayed in
those genealogies and God sees that. And
that really connects to one of the final
things I wanted to say. Look at Romans
chapter 16.
I think most of us,
maybe I haven't directly said it or
emphasize it as much. I think most of us
recognize well the downfall of ser of
the serpent the downfall of Satan is
accomplished through
the specific offspring of woman Jesus
when he is born from a woman without a
man involved he is born from a woman and
he defeats the serpent but it's more
than that because though Jesus is the
primary offspring of woman to crush the
head of the serpent Those
who are part of the body of Christ,
the body of Christ also now are members
of Christ's body. And Paul recognized
that means those of us who are in Christ
or part of his body also
take part in defeating the serpent. Look
at Romans 16.
I'm going to start in verse 17.
I appeal to you, brothers, to watch out
for those who cause divisions and create
obstacles contrary to the doctrine that
you've been taught. Avoid them. For such
persons do not serve our Lord Christ,
but their own appetites. And by smooth
talk and flattery, they deceive the
hearts of the naive. For your obedience
is known to all, so that I rejoice over
you. But I want you to be wise as to
what is good and innocent as to what is
evil. The God of peace will soon crush
Satan under your feet.
Paul isn't saying Jesus is really the
only one that defeats Satan. Sure, of
course, he is the primary one. He is the
ultimate one. But those who are in the
body of Christ also join with Christ and
with Christ as the head and us as the
body. We through our actions,
through our obedience, through our faith
crush Satan as well.
And so that relates back to genealogies.
genealogies have just specific people,
specific names,
some that seem insignificant, and yet
no, they're not insignificant. They they
connect to Jesus literally through a
family line. Well, the same thing is
true spiritually that all of us are have
been grafted into, as Paul says in
Romans, grafted into the family of
Abraham. We have been joined into the
spiritual genealogy
and are then connected to that promise
that God said where the offspring of
woman would crush the head of the
serpent.
And all of us have been born literally
from women.
And so God used the birth of women,
child birth to bring about us. Yes,
Jesus, but also us. And so God is
bringing about Satan's downfall by using
childbirth, using people to stomp the
head of the serpent.
So hopefully we've we've answered this
question. Why are genealogies
profitable? If if at this point you feel
like, I'm just not really sure how this
connects. I don't really see the profit.
That's fine. I would love to keep
talking about it. If there's anything we
talk about throughout the the rest of
this uh quarter where you think I'm not
really seeing the practical benefit in
studying this or knowing this, let's
let's talk because I I do think so often
we tend to just throw up our hands and
sort of move on instead of really taking
the time to dig and to learn and to
discover how I can use this. What lesson
would this instill in me that would
benefit me in my work for God? So
hopefully we've accomplished that this
morning. The real test, well, I'll say I
applaud all of you, your courage for
coming into this class with uh with a
hint that maybe there'll be some uh some
challenging topics. Uh but the real test
will be next week. If it's empty in
here, I get it. Genealogies are not are
not uh for everyone. But uh next week,
we're going to focus on a specific
genealogy in Genesis, the genealogy of
Esau,
because that one's unique. It's Abraham,
Isaac, and Jacob. Why is there a
genealogy of Esau? Uh, that's a huge
question, and I think there's a huge
lesson that is so relevant to our lives
today. So, we'll talk about that next
time. All right. I thank you a lot for
your time. I appreciate it. Thank you
everybody for being here.
