All right. Well, good morning.
So, there's probably some of you in here
that weren't here last Sunday for our
first class. So, I just encourage you if
you can go back and watch that class.
It's just an intro to the whole purpose,
the whole goal of this class because
I've called this class all scriptures
profitable. And just to summarize,
we are purposefully looking at texts in
the Old Testament that just don't seem
practically useful for Christians today.
and and trying to look at those and and
determine how are they practically
useful because Paul said they were. And
so this is the this is the foundational
verse uh for this whole class when Paul
told Timothy. But as for you continue in
what you have learned and have firmly
believed knowing from whom you learned
it and how from childhood you've been
acquainted with the sacred writings
which are able to make you wise for
salvation through faith in Christ Jesus.
All scripture is breathed out by God and
profitable for teaching, for reproof,
for correction, and for training in
righteousness, that the man of God may
be complete, equipped for every good
work. And so, we're looking at passages
trying to determine how does this equip
me for every good work? How does this
help me in my work? Because on the
surface, it appears like it doesn't
really equip me. And so last time we
looked at genealogies in general in the
book of Genesis,
uh the genealogies throughout Genesis.
Today we're going to specifically look
at Genesis 36, Esau's genealogy.
And I'll just say right up front after
having studied this, I love this
chapter. I love this chapter that
describes Esau's genealogy. Hopefully by
the end of this morning, you'll
understand why and you'll really you'll
really love it too and appreciate it,
too. I want us to read this chapter. So,
you can open your Bibles to Genesis 36.
Let's just remind ourselves who Esau is.
Abraham had a son, Isaac. Isaac had twin
boys.
The younger of the being Jacob, and from
Jacob came the Israelites. The older of
the twin boys of Isaac was Esau. And
from Esau came the the nation
of the
So, we're going to read Genesis 36. And
there are a lot of names
in this chapter. This would be the most
terrifying scripture reading to be asked
to read. But the secret is just
pronounce the names confidently. and
nobody knows how they're supposed to be
pronounced anyway, but you look like you
really know what you're talking about.
And that's exactly what I'm going to be
doing. Uh, so let's let's go through
chapter 36,
starting in verse one. We're going to
read the whole chapter.
Genesis 36, starting in verse one.
These are the generations of Esau, that
is Edom. Esau took his wives from the
Canaanites. Adah, the daughter of Elon
the Hittite, a holy Bama, the daughter
of Ana, the daughter of Zibian the
Hivite, and Bmath, Ishmael's daughter,
the sister of Neba Ayaf. And Adah bore
to Esau, Elfaz. Basemath bore Ruel. And
a holy Bama bore Jush, Jalam, and Kora.
These are the sons of Esau who were born
to him in the land of Canaan. Then Esau
took his wives, his sons, his daughters,
and all the members of his household,
his livestock, all his beasts, and all
his property that he had acquired in the
land of Canaan. He went into a land away
from his brother Jacob, for their
possessions were too great for them to
dwell together. The land of their
sojournings could not support them
because of their livestock. So, Esau
settled in the hill country of Seir.
Esau is Edom. These are the generations
of Esau, the father of the in
the hill country of Seir. These are the
names of Esau's sons. Elephaz, the son
of Adah, the wife of Esau. Ruel, the son
of Basmath, the wife of Esau. The sons
of Elephaz were Teman, Omar, Zepo,
Gatam, and Canaz. Timna was a concubine
of Elephaz, Esau's son. She bore
Amalecch to Elephaz. These are the sons
of Adah, Esau's wife. These are the sons
of Ruel, Nahhath, Zera, Shama, and Miza.
These are the sons of Basmath, Esau's
wife. These are the sons of Aholy Bama,
the daughter of Anna, the daughter of
Zibian, Esau's wife. She bore to Esau,
Jush, Jalam, and Kora. These are the
chiefs of the sons of Esau. The sons of
Elephaz, the firstborn of Esau, the
chiefs, Teeman, Omar, Zepo, Kenaz, Kora,
Gatam, and Amalecch. These are the
chiefs of Elephaz in the land of Edom.
These are the sons of Adah. These are
the sons of Ruel, Esau's son. The
chiefs, Nahhath, Zarah, Shama, and
Mizah. These are the chiefs of Ruel in
the land of Edom. These are the sons of
Bmath, Esau's wife. These are the sons
of a holy Bama, Esau's wife. The chiefs,
Jush, Jalam, and Kora. These are the
chiefs born of a holy Bama, the daughter
of Ana, Esau's wife. These are the sons
of Esau, that is Edom. And these are
their chiefs. These are the sons of
Seir, the Horite, the inhabitants of the
land. Lotan, Shobal, Zibian, Ana,
Dishon, Ezar, and Dishan. These are the
chiefs of the Horites, the sons of Seir
in the land of Edom. The sons of Lotan
were Horai and Hemam. And Lotan's sister
was Timna. These are the sons of Chobal,
Alvan, Manahath, Ebal, Shepo, and Onam.
These are the sons of Zibian. Aayia and
Anna. He is the Anna who found the hot
springs in the wilderness as he pastured
the donkeys of Zibian his brother. These
are the children of Ana, Dishon, and
Holy Bama, the daughter of Anna. These
are the sons of Dishon, Hemdan, Eshban,
Ethran, and Sharan. These are the sons
of Ezar, Bilhan, Zeavan, and Aon. These
are the sons of Dan, Oz, and Iran. These
are the chiefs of the Horites. The
chiefs Lotan, Shobal, Zibian, Anad,
Dishon, Ezar, and Dishan. These are the
chiefs of the Horites, chief by chief in
the land of Seir. These are the kings
who reigned in the land of Edom before
any king reigned over the Israelites.
Bella, the son of Bayor, reigned in
Edom, the name of his city being
Dinhaba. Bella died, and Joab, the son
of Zarah of Bozra, reigned in his place.
Jobab died and Husham of the land of the
Temonites reigned in his place. Husham
died and Hadad the son of Baad who
defeated Midian in the country of Moab
reigned in his place. The name of his
city being Abbath. Hadad died and Samla
of Mazria reigned in his place. Samla
died and Shaul of Riaboth on the
Euphrates reigned in his place. Shaul
died and Bal Hanan the son of Akbar
reigned in his place. Bale Hanan the son
of Akbar died and Hadar reigned in his
place. The name of his city being Pau.
His wife's name was Mahabel the daughter
of Matred daughter of Mesahab. These are
the names of the chiefs of Esau
according to their clans and their
dwelling places by their names. The
chiefs Timna, Alva, Jeth, Aholy Bama,
Elah, Pinan, Kenaz, Timman, Mibsar,
Magdiel, and Irram. These are the chiefs
of Edom. that is Esau, the father of
Edom, according to their dwelling places
in the land of their possession.
All scripture is profitable, Paul,
that the man of God may be complete and
equipped for every good work.
After reading that chapter, obviously
the question is, how is that profitable
for Christians today? What makes that
profitable?
We've already made a major Bible study
mistake.
I did on purpose, but what have we
already done that is just the wrong way
to study the Bible?
&gt;&gt; Perfect. Exactly. We've only read one
chapter. We haven't tied it to the rest
of the story at all. We've just looked
at this one chapter in isolation. When
Moses wrote and compiled Genesis, did he
did he mean for us to just jump into the
middle of a story and start reading and
then try and figure out what the point
of it is? No. Did he mean for the
chapters to be standalone chapters, just
little islands by themselves that offer
their own worth and value, just
isolated? No. Did Moses even put the
chapter divisions in Genesis? No.
Those are added much, much later.
Genesis 36, this genealogy of Esau,
it's intentionally put here because it
contributes to the narrative, to the
story. In order to understand its worth,
you have to look at the surrounding
narrative. And that's what we mentioned
last time when we just looked at the
genealogies in general.
We uh oh, let's see. This may be out of
order.
Okay, the genealogies in general,
they're not just Bible trivia. They're
not just information and knowledge for
the sake of knowledge, and they're not
disconnected from the surrounding
narratives.
The genealogies are intentionally
included because of their spiritual
significance to the surrounding
narrative. That's true of every
genealogy in the Bible. It is there to
make a theological
point. It is there to connect and show
something spiritual about the
surrounding narrative. And so in order
for us to understand chapter 36, this
genealogy of Esau, we have to look at
the context of Genesis.
And so if we had time, we'd start at the
very beginning, Genesis 1, and make our
way all the way through to chapter 36.
And I think tons of light bulbs would go
off. We don't have the time to do that,
but let's at least focus on some of the
major things that are part of the
context of this genealogy.
And first, it's Genesis 12, the promises
to Abraham. So, this is what God said to
Abraham or his name Abram at the time.
Genesis 12 says, "Now the Lord said to
Abram, go from your country and your
kindred and your father's house to the
land that I will show you, and I will
make of you a great nation, and I will
bless you and make your name great, so
that you will be a blessing. I will
bless those who bless you, and him who
dishonors you, I will curse, and in you
all the families of the earth shall be
blessed."
These are the things that God promised
to do to Abraham and his offspring and
through Abraham and his offspring. And
these blessings, these promises, God
then repeats to Abraham's son Isaac.
And then Isaac and Rebecca, they have
twin boys.
And God even tells Rebecca, there are
twins in your womb. Each of them are
going to be a nation. And God
specifically says the younger one,
Jacob, that will be the stronger of the
two. That will be the stronger nation.
That will be the dominant one over the
older one, Esau.
And then these promises to Abraham are
repeated to Jacob himself. So in Genesis
35,
which is right before the chapter we
just read,
Genesis 35 says, "And God said to Jacob,
I am God Almighty. Be fruitful and
multiply. A nation and a company of
nations shall come from you, and kings
shall come from your own body. The land
that I gave to Abraham and Isaac, I will
give to you and I will give the land to
your offspring after you.
So God has specified, I will give these
blessings to you, Abraham, and I will
give these blessings to you, Isaac, and
I will give these blessings to you,
Jacob.
And then at the end of chapter 35,
you then have Jacob's genealogy, if you
can call it a genealogy. But you have
Jacob's genealogy. And you would think,
okay, if God made these promises to
Abraham and to Isaac and to Jacob, then
Jacob's genealogy is going to be so
impressive
and just show all the amazing things
that God is doing through Jacob.
No, that's not what happens at all. Uh
you can look at the end of chapter 35
and see just how unimpressive
Jacob's genealogy is. And there it is.
Now the sons of Jacob were 12. The sons
of Leah, Reuben, Jacob's firstborn,
Simeon, Levi, Judah, Issachar, and
Zebulun. The sons of Rachel, Joseph, and
Benjamin. The sons of Bilha, Rachel's
servant, Dan, and Naphali. The sons of
Zilpa, Leah's servant, Gad, and Asher.
These were the sons of Jacob who were
born to him in Padan.
And then it mentions that Jacob's dad,
Isaac, died. And then you get into
chapter 36.
And you have such a different genealogy
when we read Esau's, right? I mean, do
you see the juxiposition?
Which son was the one that God said
would be the predominant son? Jacob. And
then it just has a list of Jacob had 12
sons, but Esau. And then it just lists
this giant genealogy showing all of
these things that happened with Esau and
the nation of the
And so what chapter 36 shows when we get
there,
it shows that the
became a large and mighty nation. Don't
get bogged down on all the names. I
realize I had to say a holy bama like 19
times, right? But don't get bogged down
on like all the different names. Just
notice there are tons of names
because there are tons of descendants
and mighty men and chiefs. And it even
lists the the chiefs of the nations that
Esau's people married into. And so now
they have political alliances and now
they're a stronger nation because
they've joined with these other strong
nations of the land. And so the
became a large and mighty nation and
they have a homeland. They have obtained
a land. They've settled there which
makes them a legitimate nation, right?
They have their own land
and they've appointed kings.
They've appointed kings which means they
have rulers. They have armies. They have
palaces. They have walled cities. They
have guards. They have other types of
rulers.
And so the have all this. This
genealogy describes this is what has
occurred. And the did it all
before
Israel did.
That is so significant. It all happened
before the Israelites, before Jacob's
people.
In fact, did you catch verse 31?
I think this is a subtle a subtle uh uh
hint at just sort of the the absurdity
that it seems like is happening here.
Verse 31, these are the kings who
reigned in the land of Edom
before any king reigned over the
Israelites.
Maybe I added a little bit of a
sarcastic tone there, but I do think
that is showing the
had all the makings of a legitimate
nation way before the Israelites did.
Now, if you know the context of Genesis
and you know what God promised, this
doesn't make sense.
When you see what what Jacob is going
through, what the Israelites through
Jacob are going through, then you see
what Esau is going through.
It calls into question something.
It calls into question God.
Don't see this just as a genealogy.
This is a direct threat to what God
said. And it begs the question,
will God's promises come true? Because
it doesn't look like they're coming
true.
Can God be trusted?
Because it seems like what God said was
going to happen, the opposite is
actually happening.
That's what Genesis 36 is showing us.
I think I think Moses purposefully
decided to put this here so that that
will be noticed. So that the reader of
Genesis, if we read Genesis the way we
really are supposed to as a narrative
story where we don't just jump into the
middle of places or read a chapter and
come back two weeks later, if we really
read it through as a story, we would
notice the tension here that what God
said he would do doesn't seem to be
happening the way he described.
I think often when we when we study the
Bible, especially in the narrative
stories, we get focused on the trees and
we just forget the forest.
And so I think that happens so much with
this chapter. Unfortunately, we're just
we look at it, we think, genealogy,
what's the point of that? Esau's
genealogy. Well, he's not even Abraham,
Isaac, or Jacob. There's tons of names
in here. What's this about? and we don't
think about the larger story, the big
picture of Genesis and how it relates to
how it relates to God.
So, I know we haven't talked yet about
specifically how is this profitable to
us as Christians today, but are there
any thoughts or questions about in the
story why Esau's genealogy is
significant to what Genesis is
describing? Anything along the lines of
what we've talked about so far? Any
thoughts or questions? Yes.
You know, we love I love Jacob. But you
see how God blessed and when you read
the whole story
from 52 33 where he's going up to meet
his brother unto his soul. And Esau is a
powerful nation. Jacob is the one that
speaks.
&gt;&gt; Yeah.
&gt;&gt; And I think when you get to 36, you can
see why
because
you know we're not talking a nation.
&gt;&gt; Yeah.
&gt;&gt; And here's Jacob with his little example
and Esau got everything. You know, he
says
apologiz
&gt;&gt; Oh, yeah. Yeah. There's two things I
think you said that that are important.
One, just when you actually go back and
read the narrative story, you see the
same thing playing out where Jacob has
he's got he's got his 12 sons. That's
not an insignificant thing really. It's
just insignificant compared to Esau uh
that you see in the story. Jacob has his
his kids and his servants and his
animals, but then but then Esau's just
has so much more and is way more
powerful, which is why Jacob is so
afraid of him. Uh because not only did
Jacob wrong him, but Esau has the power
and has the numbers. Uh and so and so
that's there. But then also, I think
it's important to note it's not that God
said he wouldn't bless Esau.
Uh the problem really isn't that Esau
has blessings because there are a lot of
people in Genesis that are blessed
simply because they're connected to
Abraham.
Uh Abraham's other son Ishmael was
blessed too. And and Lot, Abraham's
nephew, is is blessed and rescued
because of his association with Abraham.
That's not the problem. The problem is
God said there's two and I'm going to
bless Jacob more. And that's not what's
happening. It's not that Esau's
blessings are a problem. It's that his
blessings seem to far surpass the
blessings of Jacob. So yeah, that's
that's huge. Anything else?
&gt;&gt; Yeah, Keith.
&gt;&gt; The obviously the benefit from
examining this today is that we can look
at the entire scripture and see
how this may be used by God. further
illustrate a point that happens later.
Obviously, if you're reading this as a,
you know, early Israelite, uh, this is
being accounted to, you expect it to be
a lot different, but, uh, it calls to
line in Hosea 13. Um, where now is your
king that he may save you in all your
cities and your judges and whom you
requested, give me a king and princes.
And you know, your point about how these
are all the kings that this is what the
 had before there was even a
king in Israel
calls to mind that kind of thought that
here you know scripture the Israelites
the nation is calling out for a king God
is saying you asked this but it's not
for me like I'm your king and being able
to look at this later
&gt;&gt; see that point that yeah they had all of
this
&gt;&gt; and then you you got what you wanted and
look what it led to And the blessing of
of how people might view that at that
time is what the had and the
true blessing of having God himself that
may have been lost on a lot of the
Israelites at the time
missing out on being like the other
nations and the point
I think you can see that thread
throughout scripture of what God is
trying to make and teach that you didn't
need all of this. Yeah,
&gt;&gt; you had right and and that also for for
today brings to the point of that he is
our we don't need anything and the
important point that deliverance and I
realize this isn't necessarily filling
this particular passage of Genesis but
just that call to mind the importance of
the entirety of scripture and what he
may have been trying to communicate even
back early for most of his
&gt;&gt; Oh yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I think I think
everything you said is great, Keith, and
it really, if I could just summarize
said, I mean, the the you read from
Hosea, and it's it's only from human
eyes that it that it seems like there's
a problem here, right? Um God knows the
idea that that Jacob and his people
don't have a king yet isn't really a
problem at all from from God's
perspective. He is their king. the
things that that may make a nation seem
legitimate, may make a nation seem like
they're blessed don't always match truly
what is going on. Um and so and so yeah,
I mean God even makes the point even
when you had a king, it may not always
be exactly what you wanted. Um there's
there's ways to look at what's happening
from a human perspective and there's a
way to look at what's happening from a
spiritual perspective and to see, you
know, everything everything that Esau
had uh isn't necessarily an indication
of what it appears to be. And then the
same thing with the Israelites, what
they seem to lack isn't actually isn't
actually what they lack. Um, so yeah, we
we're going to get into uh some of how
this directly connects to us, but any
other thoughts about any of that?
Anything we've talked about as far as
just the story throughout Genesis and
even into the Old Testament? Um, and how
this genealogy is a significant plot
point in that.
I will say this, let me look at the time
first. Yeah, I will say this. Um, it's
not just here. Virtually
every plot point in Genesis is a direct
challenge to something God said. We
talked last time about how God said uh
that he would he would crush the head of
the serpent through the offspring of
woman.
Well, if you keep that in mind as you
read throughout Genesis, you'll see that
that statement by God, that promise by
God that he would use offspring to bring
about the downfall of the serpent.
That's challenged all the time
throughout Genesis. Think about the
first two offspring of woman.
Well, it's Cain and Abel. So, one of the
offspring kills the other. And God just
said the offspring of woman would defeat
the serpent. And then this happens with
the very first offspring. Think about
how Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob,
all of them had wives who were barren.
Well, God said he'd make a great nation,
and then the wives aren't able to have
children, right? And so, there's just
always threats to what God has said. The
promises to Abraham constantly,
everything that happens in Genesis is
calling into question God's promises.
And this is no different where God said
something would happen and now it seems
like the opposite.
Well, let's let's think about how this
directly connects to us. Let me just
summarize sort of the situation we've
described here with Esau.
The Israelites were God's chosen people,
right? Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. and
the Israelites.
But they saw
the prospering first
at times prospering more than them.
In fact, the
were prospering
and had all these things while the
Israelites were where
in slavery.
The Israelites were in Egyptian slavery.
And the already were a settled,
legitimate nation.
And the were this settled,
legitimate nation with chiefs and kings
and a land while the Israelites were
wandering in the wilderness. And while
the Israelites were trying to conquer
their land and hadn't yet conquered all
of it, and while the Israelites were
going through the chaos of the period of
the judges.
But during all that time, the
were settled. They were they were fine.
They were prospering.
But yet, here's the point.
In God's time,
he exalted his people exactly like he
said he would. Now, that doesn't happen
in Genesis. In Genesis, you keep seeing
little developments of it of it
happening a little bit and and the
blessings increase some,
but you don't see in Genesis where it
reaches the point where now Israel is
the dominant nation and the are
not.
You have to keep reading the the Old
Testament to see that. But eventually
you do see during the time of of David
and Solomon, the Israelites are the most
powerful nation in the world.
All their enemies are gone. David has
conquered everyone and they are the
largest, the most powerful, the most
predominant nation in the world. And so
God brought that about. It just happened
in God's time.
Do does this resonate with us? This
situation
what the is what happened with the
Israelites and this sort of imbalance of
well the ones who are supposed to be the
chosen ones aren't exactly the ones that
are in the best situation. It seems kind
of flipped on its head. It seems like
kind of the opposite.
What's God doing here?
I think I think most of us have have
understood this concept before. We've
experienced it. Think about this.
Those in Christ are God's chosen people.
We are the new Israel. We've been
grafted into Abraham's
lineage. We are now children of Abraham.
But so often,
so often we see those outside of Christ
who prosper and gain power while we
struggle.
We see those outside of Christ living
while Christians suffer or Christians
die.
or we see those outside of Christ
actually persecuting
the chosen people of God.
Well, that that's the same thing that
was happening in Genesis where you just
see this imbalance and you see, wait a
minute, God God said he would bless
everyone, but he specifically gave
blessings. He specifically gave status.
He specifically
gave promises
to his chosen people.
Promises like salvation from death.
Jesus said, "Blessed are the meek. They
shall inherit the earth."
That doesn't really look like what's
happening, right?
God even said, "If you are Christ's, you
are Abraham's offspring.
heirs according to promise.
That's what Galatians says. So we are to
receive the promises to Abraham. Even
promises like I will bless those who
bless you and he who dishonors you I
will curse.
The New Testament often times reminds
Christians that God is going to bring
justice and vengeance against those who
persecute Christians. And yet when you
look around,
it doesn't always seem like that's the
case. In fact, you know who the
situation really resonates with?
It resonates with Christians who've been
victims of abuse.
If you're a Christian who's been a
victim of abuse or you know someone
who's a Christian who's been a victim of
abuse, this is what they're having to go
through. This is what they've gone
through. God God has made promises to
them. They're they're one of God's
chosen people.
And yet so often
abusers are the ones prospering. Abusers
are the ones
that are thriving.
While Christian victims suffer and
struggle and are wounded from what's
happened.
I know several situations where you have
a a righteous Christian
and someone who has horribly mistreated
them, horribly abused them, and the
abuser thrives financially
while the Christian struggles
financially.
The abuser has a wonderful reputation
while the victim doesn't.
The abuser seems to have power and
status and and the victim cries to God
every night in in prayer because of the
pain they are suffering.
That is not how God said it was going to
be. That is not what God said would
happen. God has promised us he will wipe
away every tear. God has promised us
there will be no crying.
God has promised us, "Humble yourselves
and I will exalt you."
It just hasn't happened yet. And so,
just like with the Israelites where they
had to wait until God's time and they
had to watch while something backward
seemed to be occurring, that is also
what we have to face all the time,
especially those who have been victims
of abuse. But just like with the
Israelites, in God's time, he'll exalt
his people.
It's just a matter of waiting on God for
that to happen.
Yes.
&gt;&gt; All of the scriptures. I mean, we had
the blessing of being on this side
while we could see what they were going
through. So the concurrent shield the
victim like you said has the promise has
the hope and that's what
through it that there's a lot more than
this life like Abraham and his real
promise and it's not promised.
&gt;&gt; Oh yeah I think that's great. I know we
we have to understand we have the
promises
and I think the the key to what you're
talking about is for the Israelites I
mean the only reason that that they
didn't have an excuse to just throw
their hands up in despair and say it's
not happening is because of the
character of God which is also something
Genesis tries to show constantly that
when there is a threat that seems to
call into question God's power God's of
God's honesty about his promises that
God then is proven to be faithful and
break through those threats to his
promises, those threats to his
character. It is the character of God
that gives us the hope and the
confidence to endure. And the same thing
is is true uh for the situations we face
today. Uh it is because of our
understanding of who God is that we are
able to wait and endure and have that
confidence to know what God promised
will occur despite the seeming threats
that that are before us, despite how
often upside down and backward it seems.
Any other thoughts or or questions on
that?
All right, let me make one more point
and then and then we'll be done. This
situation
also should
really resonate with us because who also
experienced this very situation?
Jesus,
right? When Jesus came to earth of all
people, who was the chosen person of
God? Christ.
And yet Christ saw others prospering
instead of him all the time. Christ was
born in a humble situation. Christ lived
in a humble situation. And Christ died
the lowliest, most despicable death
while everyone else around him
was in a much better place than him.
And yet then God exalted him.
And so because we've seen what Christ
has done,
because we can look back through the
Bible and see this concept happens a
lot.
This concept is throughout the Old
Testament story and it culminates in
Christ being the one who supposedly is
going to be the predominant one. And yet
for a time is the lowest while others
are blessed instead of him.
And then Christ is exalted and can say
all authority on heaven and earth has
been given to me. Because that has
happened.
We can have the confidence that the same
thing will happen with us.
And maybe we don't talk about this
enough. There's going to come a time
when Christ returns. And it's not simply
to then give everyone blessings. It is
also to bring justice
against the persecutors
of God's people.
When God says, "Vengeance is mine," he
is talking about the fact that his
people
often
are horribly treated by others. And God
is going to come as a righteous judge
and rectify that.
And for those that have been victimized
and for those that are struggling from
what has occurred with them, that is
justice and that is a comfort and that
is a blessing that they're waiting for.
And God said he would do that.
Well, hopefully
when you look at Genesis 36 again in the
future, if you do, hopefully this isn't
the last time uh you ever look at this
chapter. Hopefully when you look at it
again, you see the significance of it.
You see what it's what it's trying to do
in the course of the story and how it is
a powerful
lesson that does relate to us. It does
connect to us. that as we're engaging in
our spiritual work, as we are engaging
in good works,
this helps fortify us in that. It helps
us in that.
All right. If you don't mind, I'd like
to say a prayer before we end. Let's
pray.
God, we praise you. We praise you, God,
for your promises. We praise you, God,
for the many ways you blessed us. We
praise you God for your character, for
your honesty, for your power that gives
us the confidence and gives us the
motivation to endure.
It gives us the confidence and the
motivation to wait and to trust that
what you have said will occur because
God, you are faithful. Help us, God, in
our work, in all that we do to glorify
you. We pray everything in your son's
name. Amen.
I thank you very much. I appreciate it.
