Now there are some false transformations
that you read about, you hear about. Uh
there are people who are transforming
themselves from one gender to another in
their mind. And let me explain. I'm not
going to get into that in detail, but I
I want you to understand that the
reasons for that are actually known
psychologically.
Uh studies have been done on that
subject quite extensive and it's not a
shock. It's just something you're no
longer allowed to study, it seems, in
the realms of psychology. But in the
earlier part of the 20th century, those
topics were studied at length and people
were examined. Why did they do this? Why
did they go that way? And you need to
understand that there were harmful
things that happened to those children
and they were in many ways created by
their circumstances and their
situations. So yes, they can change and
yes they can do better and yes to be
that way is wrong. But you have to
understand because they were raised in a
way that helped them become that. It's
not easy to change. It's very hard. And
when you have something literally put in
your mind for almost 18 years before you
leave home, it's really hard to get away
from that. And so there's much of that
in that whole field of study. And it's
caused them harm. It's not of God. And
God did not create that. Mankind in his
sinful nature is at the root and the
cause of those kinds of behaviors. And
you need to understand that. So it's not
entirely their fault, but they do have
responsibility for doing better. And so
and that's true on so many levels in so
many different kinds of problems that
are in our world today. And we don't
need to think that people can't change
um for the better. It can be done. It's
just not easy. And uh so don't expect
people to change it. You're changing.
You'll find out isn't as easy as you
think either. Uh but it should not be
just sloughed on. Transforming uh
teachers from evil to good can be done.
U it is true that some can go from good
to evil. 2 Corinthians 11:es 13-15 says,
"Such are false apostles, deceitful
workers, transforming themselves into
apostles of Christ." So they're not
really. Verse 14, "And no wonder, for
Satan himself transforms himself into an
angel of light. Therefore, it is no
great thing if his ministers also
transform themselves into ministers of
righteousness whose end will be
according to their works. Um, and so
basically the word that's used
transformed in my version and New
American Standard uses the word
disguise. So the idea is that it is a
facade that appears that they've
transformed but they've not really
transformed. It's also translated
conform.
Transforming teachers from good to evil
can be uh a disguise or it can be a lie
to uh think that way. Isaiah 5 and verse
20. Woe to the those who call evil good
and good evil, who put darkness for
light and light for darkness, who put
bitter for sweet and sweet for bitter.
We have many people who will tell you
what you want to hear
and they'll confirm whatever you want to
believe and that's in the realm of
religion. It's not just in the realm of
politics. It is in life. People will
tell you whatever you want to do, it's
okay. But that's not really true. And
then they'll also tell you that things
that are good are evil. There are people
out there that make fun of you for being
at church on a Sunday night. There are
those who would say you're evil for
being so religious.
And that's just the nature of the world
we live in. So they transforming
teachers from evil to good in their
mind. But evil is evil and good is good.
Suicide, anger, family heartaches,
destruction.
None of that's good fruit. It's bad
fruit.
Matthew 7 15-17. Beware of false
prophets who come to you in sheep's
clothing, but inwardly they are ravenous
wolves. You will know them by their
fruits.
Do men gather grapes from thorn bushes
or figs from thistles? Even so, every
good tree bears good fruit, but a bad
tree bears bad fruit. If teaching
results in wickedness, no matter what
anybody says about that person, that
teaching is wicked.
It's evil.
The teaching of the scriptures need to
be properly understood and properly read
and understood to produce good and
healthy habits. There was um a case
where a priest saw this Belgium woman uh
reading her Bible and he went over to
her and rebuked her for reading what he
called a bad book. Now that may not be
something you would expect, but it has
been more common than you realize that
people have been dissuaded from reading
their Bible. But the young woman
responded to the priest this way. Mr.
priest. So, you can tell she didn't go
to his church. Mr. Priest, a little
while ago, my brother was an idler, a
gambler, a drunkard, and made such a
noise in the house that no one could
stay in it. Since he began to read the
Bible, his works, he works with
industry. He goes no longer to the
tavern, no longer touches cards, brings
home money to his poor old mother, and
our life at home is quiet and
delightful. How comes it, Mr. Priest,
that a bad book produces such good
fruit?
There's good fruit here.
You won't go wrong reading it. You go
won't go wrong studying it. you won't go
wrong teaching it and uh it will
transform you and that's what we want to
talk about how it will transform you. I
want to look at just basically three
ideas and let's see if we can walk
through it. The first one that I want
you to see is the first transformation
transformation that we experience is by
the spirit of the Lord and our
conversion. And it really is a
transformation. And let me explain to
you. It says it in 2 Corinthians 3
16-18. If you want to look in your
Bible, I don't I didn't have room to put
out all up here. This is a funny little
slide. It says verse 16, "Nevertheless,
when one turns or changes, turns to the
Lord, the veil is taken away." He's
talking about the veil that lies over
their heart, uh, Jews heart, preventing
them from understanding the Old
Testament and seeing Jesus in it. Verse
17. Now the Lord is the spirit and where
the spirit of the Lord is there is
liberty. But we all with unveiled faces
that is while we read old testament
scripture particularly beholding as in a
mirror the glory of the lord are being
are being transformed into the same
image from glory to glory just as by the
spirit of the lord. So when we turn to
the Lord, we are being transformed. But
it is true that we are totally
transformed when we turn to the Lord as
well. And 2 Corinthians 5 and verse 21
says that uh he did what he did. He
became sin for us that we might become
the righteousness of God in him. So
literally we go from being wicked to
righteous. That's a transformation.
But we sometimes don't realize that the
world wants to transform us too. But
there were things that were in our old
life that we got glory in. You know,
Moses, it says in Exodus 34 33-35, which
is what this text in 2 Corinthians is
based upon. It says that Moses didn't
know when he'd gone in before the Lord
and came out that his face glowed. He
didn't know that. Scared the people when
they saw it. Like, what's going on? It's
not like your face is really burnt
tonight. I see that. That's bad. Are you
okay? But anyway, so it wasn't like
that. It was literally it glowed. Okay.
And and it's it would glow. And they
were like, "Wow." And so what Moses did
is Moses put a veil over his face. At
first, he put the veil over his face. We
thought because it was scaring the
people, but what we found out is that
wasn't the real reason he is putting the
veil over his face. The real reason he
is putting a veil over his face is
because every minute after he went away
from the Lord, his face wasn't glowing
as bright. It got dimmer and dimmer and
dimmer and dimmer until it wasn't
glowing. And so, he wore a veil all the
time. and they didn't know that it was
still glowing. But then when he'd go in
before the Lord, he'd take the veil off
and his face would end up glowing again.
He'd come out, let them see that his
face is glowing, that he'd seen the Lord
and put the veil back over his face and
then it would not be as bright the next
day and the next day and the next day.
And so he did not want them to see that
the glory was fading. Well, when we were
in the world, everything that we were a
part of, the glory faded in that. I know
now the glory doesn't fade. now that
we've become right with God. But back
then we had prejuditial thinking and we
thought that that was glorious and then
it faded. Wishful thinking. We thought
we were really on to something and the
glory faded to that. Fragmented thinking
and we thought we really were into
something and then the glory of that
faded. And then disobedient thinking. We
thought, well, we really found something
now and then the glory of that faded.
Stubborn. All this kind of thinking we
thought really gave glory and we really
thought we were smart and we really
thought we'd found something. And each
time when you really looked at what we
had learned in the world, I'm talking
about in the world, the glory faded off
of that. But in our transformation now
in the kingdom, the New Testament, the
glory doesn't fade. The conversion
transformation of the spirit is not
temporary.
This transformation that we've undergone
is an eternal rebirth. John 3:5 says,
"We're born of water and the spirit. We
have been born again. We are born from
above. We are no longer just earthlings,
if you will. This transformation is an
eternal renewal of ourselves." In fact,
Titus 3 and:5 says that we've been
renewed by the Holy Spirit. We've been
made new.
We're not who we used to be. It's
permanent. This transformation is an
eternal replacement because it says in
Romans 8 29, we are now being conformed
to the image of his son. It really is a
true transformation we've undergone. We
now have the righteousness of Jesus.
You may not feel it. You may not feel
like you do, but that's really true.
This transformation is when we are
converted. All of this happens right
then. Right there. We're reborn. We're
renewed. And we are replaced. There is a
different person inside of us. Then, so
this first transformation is by the
spirit of the Lord and conversion. And
every last person that's been converted
in here has been transformed.
The second transformation,
this transformation is not at our
rebirth.
It is by the renewing of your mind and
sanctification. We read in Romans 12, if
you you might want to turn there, Romans
12:es 1 and 2, I beseech you therefore,
brethren, by the mercies of God, that
you present your bodies a living
sacrifice. So this is a choice you make
here. holy, acceptable to God, which is
your reasonable service or act of
worship. Verse two, and do not be
conformed, so you get to choose. Do not
be conformed to this world, but be
transformed how? By the renewing of your
mind, that you may prove what is that
good and acceptable and perfect will of
God. So this word renewal in the Greek
there's two words for making new or new
in the Greek. One is neos which
basically means new at a point in time
but this is different this kos and it
means uh new in point of character and
behavior and nature. And that's what
he's talking about here. We once were
sinners and now we're being renewed. We
are moving further and further and
further over the lifetime of our service
to the Lord away from sin and closer to
being right with God in everything we
do. That takes time. That's not an
event. That isn't when we obey the
gospel. We're being sanctified by the
spirit in this renewal of our mind every
day reminding us of what we need to do.
It's slow. It's hard. And it's really
hard to see. I mean, you you go look at
yourself in the mirror. You spend time
on your knees or before the word of God
and you look at yourself and you compare
it and you think, "Man, I'm changed at
all. I'm not done anything different.
I'm the same as I always was." But if
you look back just a little bit, look
back a couple of years, look back five
years, look back 10 years, 20 years, 30
years, 40 years, 50 years, and all of a
sudden you go, you know, I'm not what I
used to be. I ain't what I ought to be,
but I'm not exactly what I used to be.
I'm really starting to change a little
bit. And and it and I it's so subtle
that even I don't see it. I'm not even
aware of it hardly happening. The
sanctification, transformation and
renewal is not really external. You it's
internal. You virtually can't see how it
happens. This transformation is an
eternal and it internal thing and it
happens in our understanding. When our
understanding is renewed, Ephesians 4
and verse 23 says we're renewed and we
put on the new man. Well, that's a
process. When you get dressed, that's a
process. That's not boom, I'm dressed,
unless you're Superman or somebody like
that. No, it's a process. And the
process is constant. And you really
can't even understand how it's
happening. I'd like to tell you, I know
exactly how you've gotten where you are.
I don't know how exactly I got where I'm
at. How would I know exactly how this
happened? It's not something it's so
internal and it's internal and it's
unseen
in this renewal. In 2 Corinthians 4
16-18, it talks about how that our
outward man is perishing. Oh, don't you
know it? Any of y'all turned gray re
recently? Some of you just now turning
gray. I've been gray for so long now,
but I mean turning gray. Got a little
bit of gray hair and a little bit of
gray. Got a little bit of gray. These
young people don't even know what gray
is. You don't even know what it is, do
you, Luke? Anyway, so turning gray, it's
just it's a process getting older.
Things hurt. I was talking to my wife
this afternoon about we did a little
work yesterday. Not much. Didn't do
much, did we? And I'm like hurting all
over today. And I'm like, and and we do
stuff all the time. We exercise and walk
and all kinds of stuff. And I'm like,
why am I hurting so bad? I'm like, I'm
really hurt. I couldn't sleep this
afternoon. I was hurting so bad. Why am
I hurting so bad? didn't hardly do
anything. And I'm like, every move
hurts. That didn't used to be. Do y'all
remember when you were young? Some of
you are a little older. Listen to me a
moment. Do you remember when you were
young and you could go out and you could
do all you wanted to do and tomorrow you
might be a little bit sore, but that's
about it. And then it was gone, right?
It was gone by noon. Probably it was
gone. By the time you got up and got up,
it was gone. It's not like that now. I'm
telling you. So, the outward man is
perishing. We see that. We're aware of
that. What you cannot see is the inward
man is being renewed day by day by day.
The person you're married to, if you
could only see them, how good they are
now. If you could see them the way they
are, really are. And some of you can,
you can kind of look at them, you kind
of see how good they are now, and you
go, "Wow, I got a good one." You know, I
got a good one. So grateful to have
that. It's tough, but you can't see it,
but sometimes you get a glimpse of it.
And then this transformation is an
internal undoing renewal. It is undoing
things. So for us to be transformed,
there's stuff we got to let go of. And
there's a lot to let go of in that pro
process of becoming what God wants. You
got to let go of being some things, some
bad things. Uh you got to set your mind
on things above, not on things of the
earth. You got to think more about going
home, right? Have you noticed as you get
a little older, you think more about
heaven and you start thinking, "Well,
that's okay. If I die today, that's
okay."
Young people, they're like, "Die?" you
know, that's the last thing on their
mind. We let go of conforming to the
world. The world wants us all to
conform. But as a further along in this
sanctification process, you're letting
go of that. You just let go of that. I
don't I don't need to be a part of I
don't need to be on Tik Tok or whatever,
you know? I don't need that stuff, you
know? I just don't need it anymore. I
don't want it. I don't want to need it.
It's just in my way. And so you
literally let go of this world as you go
along. So that this transformation is by
the renewing of your mind in
sanctification. So it's something that
really happens in here and you can't
really see it happening, but it's real
and you really do change over the
process of time. Number three, the last
transformation is by the subduing of the
Lord in resurrection. The Bible says
something's going to happen to us that
none of us understand. The greatest
miracle that's ever been done is
probably not the creation. Probably the
greatest miracle is what we're talking
about now. None of us has ever seen
this. It's going to be something
special. That's for sure. Philippians
chapter 3, beginning at verse 20. For
our citizenship is in heaven, from which
we also eagerly wait for the savior, the
Lord Jesus Christ, who will transform
our lowly body. Now listen to me. I know
that there are people who believe we
just become ethereal spirits. The
scripture do not really teach that.
Okay? They teach that this body is going
to be there somehow. I'm not telling you
how I know what that is. I'm not
explaining that. But to say that this
body won't be there, that's not true.
This body, I'm sorry. I know some of
y'all are disappointed looking at it,
but this body is going there somehow.
How that is, I don't know. But who will
transform our, so you are too, lowly
body that it may be conformed to his
glorious body according to the working
by which he is able even to subdue all
things to himself. I don't understand,
Rex. I don't understand how your body if
it's been dead and it's rotted, been
eaten by worms or it's been scattered to
the wind. How in the world he could do
that? There's so many things you don't
understand. What are you talking about?
God can do anything, right? God can do
anything. If he can make the world by
just simply saying, "Let there be." I
assure you this not a problem for him. I
don't I mean, it's not even up for a
discussion how he could do that. We may
all just be a video game anyway. He just
resets it. I don't know how he does it.
It doesn't really matter to me. it it's
not something that I'm in control of.
This transformation it has never been
seen
uh because it's future. The
transformation of all creation, all
creation will be transformed. If you
don't believe that, read Romans 8 in
detail. Romans chapter 8 says we're not
the only thing that's that's sitting
here going, "Oh, I wish it would come. I
wish it would come." All creation is
doing that. And when I say all creation,
that's stars, moon, earth, animals,
vegetation. It's all going. I want that.
I want that. We're there, too. The
transformation of all creation is what
we all wait for. And it motivates us to
be holy. If I'm going to live where God
is, I need to be better than I am right
now.
I need to be holy, too. And I'm not that
holy. It doesn't feel so striving to be
more like Christ in this world right now
because I am going to live in that
world. So the resurrection
transformation of subduing is not really
observable either.
So you can't tell when somebody is
baptized.
See him on the street and say, "I bet he
was just baptized." Unless he's still
wet. I bet he was just baptized.
When somebody's being sanctified, you
can't look at them saying, "I bet
they're being sanctified right now."
And what you can't tell right now is
we're going to be changed. There's
nothing to see.
And when I die,
there won't be anything to see. It just
won't be. But this transformation is a
future resurrection. 1 Corinthians 15:es
42-44
says that we are sown in corruption but
we're raised in incorruption. We're sown
a natural body. We are raised a
spiritual body. I don't know what that
is. I'm just telling you that's what it
says. This is like a seed. You put it in
the ground and something else is coming
up. Look at the seed in the picture.
Does it look like the plant? Does the
plant look like the seed? Is the seed
and the plant the same thing? They are,
but they're not. They're the same.
They're not the same. They're the same,
but they're not the same. That's what
it'll be. The same, but it won't be the
same. And this transformation is a
future redemption. And that's right.
We've been redeemed, but we aren't
redeemed. What do I mean by that? Romans
8 23 says that we wait for the
redemption of the body. Here's the deal.
We've been saved. We've been redeemed.
But because we live in a sinful world
and we've been born under sin. Our body
fights everything that's right. It
fights everything that's right. Your
body will try to lead you astray. Your
body will try to get you to do what you
shouldn't do. That's just all there is
to it. And until it's redeemed and
raised, a glorious body, not having any
spot or wrinkle or any such thing as
that, until it's raised, you're going to
have that struggle. But that's what will
happen. The redemption of the body, it
says, will occur at the resurrection.
And we all look forward to that. This
transformation is not only a future
resurrection and redemption, but it's a
future revelation. The reason I say it
that way is because 1 John 3:es 2 and 3
says, "What what we shall be, we really
don't know. I mean, it says it straight
up. We don't really know what we'll be.
So, somebody says, "Well, I know what
exactly we're going to be." Yeah, don't
listen to him. He doesn't know what he's
talking about. So, here's the truth. We
really don't know. And and I'm talking
about something I really don't know what
I'm talking about, which comes to think
of it's not very unusual for me. But,
but nonetheless, I I really don't know
what we'll look like. But here's what I
do know. that when we see Jesus in his
form,
we know what we're going to look like
because we will be like him for we will
see him as he is and he was raised from
the dead and his body ascended into
heaven. So whatever that is is ours as
well. Whatever that is will be ours. So
the last transformation is by this
subduing of the Lord in the
resurrection. So those are the those are
the literally the transformations
that will happen in the future to each
and every one of us. And that's the
reason I say since that's true and I
mean this this is true for pretty much
everybody. Since that's true, that's
kind of like the biggest miracle ever
because how many people living on the
planet right now.
They say that there may have been
billions of people before the flood.
That's one theory because they all live
so long and nearly nobody died and they
kept having children until they're in
their hundreds. How many children would
you have? Well, they didn't have birth
control. So, if a woman could have one
every year, she's probably sturdy to
live to be a thousand. I suspect she's
sturdy enough to have children till
she's at least 400. So that's a lot of
children. Ladies, aren't you glad you
live now? Imagine that. 400 ch No, maybe
400 is a little optimistic. I'll go 350.
350 children. And how many wedding How
many How many grandkids would you have?
Oh my. Whoa. Just imagine having to buy
them all a Christmas present or a
birthday. Aren't you glad you live now?
So any So the point is is that there may
who knows how many people have lived on
the planet. So we may be at 50 billion
people who lived on the planet and are
all dead virtually and then they're all
raised with the voice of God. The archae
what a miracle that will be.
What a miracle that will be. So such
transformations are miracles and amazing
that uh if we're allowed to see such a
thing. There's nothing so wonderful to
see though, to see a precious soul that
gives their life to the Lord and they're
baptized and you don't see anything. But
then the spirit comes to be within them.
You don't see it. Their sins are all
forgiven.
You don't see it.
They're not just forgiven, but they're
absolutely righteous before the Lord.
and you can't see it. And then every day
thereafter, they're sanctified
by the renewing of their mind and you
don't see it. And then they're going to
be transformed when the Lord comes
and you won't get to see it. You'll only
see it after the fact cuz you're going
to be in the middle of that as your
cell. We're all So these these are great
transformations. There's a thing called
a I'm going to see if I can pronounce
this right. Polyfamous moth. You ever
heard of this polyfamous moth?
Polyphimmis moth. There's all kinds of
moths out there. Fact, my wife's got a
moth in a museum. She donated to a
museum. Got a picture of it somewhere.
Ask that about. But polyamus polyfamous
moth. Um here's its stages of life. For
10 days, it's an egg. So that's
something.
I guess it's alive. I don't know if eggs
are alive or not. I don't want to think
about that cuz I eat chicken eggs all
the time. So, let's just say they're not
alive. But anyway, so they're they're
not alive. So, then then it's alive as a
caterpillar. Okay. So, a caterpillar for
five to six weeks. And this polyfamous
moth uh eats 86,000
times its weight.
Boy, it's a a lot of food, isn't it? And
then
it's transformed into a chrysalis. So
now it's a chrysalis. Y'all have seen
chrysalis. You know what I'm talking
about. So it's a chrysalis for about two
weeks or a pupa and then it changes into
a moth. It is a moth
after these four transformations
for four days.
For only four days. It takes three
months to become what it is only for
four days.
I understand that we get frustrated that
we don't change fast or that that we
don't become. But don't get discouraged.
You're not that moth. Three months to
have four days. Imagine if your whole
life you stayed the way you are until
you got old and then the last four days
of your life you actually live the
Christian life. Imagine that. That would
be horrible, wouldn't it? I think you
need to understand that you do change
more than you realize. that you are
being transformed all along. John D.
Rockefeller senior, I don't know if
you've ever studied his life. Let me
just give you a little bit about his
life so you understand. At 33, he was
worth a million dollars.
33. This is way back. So that's a lot of
money back then. It's like a a lot of
money. At 43, he controlled the biggest
company in the world.
33 is a million.
43 controls the biggest company in the
world. At 53, he's the richest man on
earth. He is a fullblown
billionaire back when nobody was a
billionaire.
That's John D. Rockefeller senior. Uh
but his life was miserable. He was
absolutely a miserable individual at
this point in his life. At 53, he was
you you would not want to be him. He was
a billionaire and you still wouldn't
want to be him. He he not only had uh
the alipcia, all his hair is falling
off. He didn't have any eyebrows,
couldn't grow a beard, didn't have
anything on his head. Don't take that
personal. So, but so literally, he's
losing it all. Okay? All of that's gone.
He didn't have hair on his head. All he
could have was milk and crackers. He
couldn't stand to eat anything. He was
in terrible shape. He had to have guards
around him 24/7 because people wanted to
kill him. People wanted to take what he
had. And more than that, he never slept.
He could not sleep. He was so miserable.
His stomach hurt him all the time. He
was a miserable individual. But what
made him miserable? He was miserable to
everybody. He was a mean man. He got
rich because he was a low life. He was a
mean old soando. Folks, let me tell you,
he didn't care about anybody or
anything. He had no problem stepping on
you. He had no problem. Whatever it took
to get that next bill, he did it. And
he'd admit that. That was the way he
lived his life. And that's how he got to
be a billionaire.
You want to be a billionaire? That's how
he got there. And then one night when he
couldn't sleep, it hit him. All I've got
is meaningless. The doctors have just
told me I won't live another year. He's
53. I won't live another year. The way
things are going, I will be dead at the
end of this year. I've got to change.
And so, he had a a talk with Christ. He
tried to change his life. He tried to
make Jesus Lord of his life. Now, I
don't know how to judge him that topic
because I don't know exactly what he
believed on that subject. But here's
what I do know. The next morning he's a
different man. He got up the next
morning committed to be different. He
literally woke up a new man. He intend
that next morning he began sending money
to churches. He then began to give money
to the poor. He had never done that
before. He began giving money to the
needy. He went out and he set up the
Rockefeller Foundation to fund not just
to help people who were poor but to help
med medical research. It was in that in
the early days that they discovered a
little thing you may have heard of
penicellin. That's John D. Rockefeller
gave us penicellin because of the money
he threw at that. He began to help
people so much
he started falling asleep at night. He
could sleep and the next thing you know
he didn't just have to eat crackers and
drink milk. He was eating normal food.
He was supposed to be dead by the time
he was 54.
You know how long he lived? He died at
94.
He changed.
People can
change. People can be transformed.
You don't whatever you've been, you can
do better. Amen. And no matter what it
is, we can be trans. We are already
transformed. We've already been trans.
If we're Christians, we just You just
can't see it. I'm not the person I was
back in the day. Amen. You're not the
person you were. Not only was I am I not
the person because I've been totally
given the gift of righteousness, but I
have been sanctified. I'm getting
better. I know it's hard to tell. I
mean, you might some of you know me 30
years ago, and I don't know about that,
Rex, but I I am I'm getting a little
better. My My wife might have some
questions about that, but I'm getting
better. And then, not only that, one of
these days, one of these days, I'm going
to wake up. You're gonna wake up and I'm
gonna look over at you and go, "Boy,
what just happened?" Oh, we've been
dead, Rex, and we were just raised. Boy,
you look different. Yeah,
you know you're immortal now. Yeah.
Transformation. Three kinds. Conversion,
sanctification, resurrection.
Those are the one and only kinds of
transformation that we have. This is
different. Most folks will never see it
on you. Most of it will never be seen.
But it's absolutely 100% the truth. But
by the way, you look down at the plants.
Have y'all ever noticed you don't see
that either?
You put the seed in the soil. Does
anybody see it? Well, you might see
something the next morning, but you
don't see it grow. the the plant grows
up. You don't see it. It's just, hey,
it's a little taller today. I bet your
grass is a little taller today, isn't
it? Because all this rain a little
taller. Did you see it happen? You
almost think you can see it, but you
just can't quite see it growing, can
you? And then the next thing you know,
you got fruit on the tree and you can't
really see it. I think God did it that
way on purpose. What do you think? He
doesn't want us to see it.
doesn't want to see it.
So if you need to get right with God,
don't wait on you to be able to see that
you're different. Come on and be with us
and fight the good fight with us. If you
need to repent of your sins, confess the
name of Christ, or you need to be
baptized tonight, just let us know.
We'll help you any way we can. B.
