So I don't like to talk about what I'm
fixing to talk about. I don't speak much
about it very often. But
so I want to talk first of all about it
was in the 1990s that the discovery was
made which was critical. The scientists
learned that new neural connections
could happen, recovery could happen from
brain damage. uh if you had an injury to
your brain or you had some severe
depression issues or various problems,
it's been long thought, well, you just
kind of stuck with it. You could
medicate yourself, but there was no cure
for anything. That's no longer really
believed. And it had there had been
indications throughout history, but they
only really began to know that it was
true in the mid 1990s. Scientists
learned this. And I won't get into the
science of that because I'm not a
scientist.
But it was in 1995 that we were in
Africa and we were going into a heavily
malaria area. So we had to take malaria
medication. I took a medication. We all
took it. The whole family took it.
Nothing was wrong with the rest of the
family except what's normally wrong with
the rest of the family. But but I took
it and it was mephloquin if you want to
look it up sometime. and I had permanent
severe damage done to my brain. Um, I
had neurological problem,
uh, anxiety, depression, paranoia,
confusion, hallucinations, mood swings,
suicidal thoughts,
and um, it took 10 years to get well.
But at the time, nobody believed that
your brain could get better. When I
moved here, I still was not well. It had
been a year when I moved here and I was
not well for another nine years after
here.
Y'all just didn't know it as much. Well,
some of you probably thought I was
weird, but um but that was the truth.
What the only reason I bring that up is
that I did get better.
God healed me. Maybe this is a thing
that just happens. I don't know.
But your brain can change. That's my
point. So, if you're sitting there and
saying, "I'm stuck with what I've got."
It's not really true. There is such a
thing as renewal of your mind. It's not
just a biblical concept. It's a real
thing. You can change your thinking. You
can change your mind. You know, the end
of the year, the holiday period is is
sometimes the greatest time of our
lives. It's like, "Wow, this is just
outstanding.
Love it all." But a lot of people this
is really a hard time of the year. Uh
there's a lot of believe it or not
injuries, stresses, melancholy hits a
lot of people. Uh Vincent Van Go he was
35 when he cut his ear off. Did you know
it was at Christmas when he did that?
Yeah. So almost 20% of the people in
America are stressed and overwhelmed by
preparing for Christmas gettogethers.
Onethird of women feel stress
particularly in December more than any
month of the year. 3% of us all they say
suffer electric shock from bad wiring of
Christmas trees and the like.
50 people will fall out of the attic
getting tinsel and Christmas trees out
of the attic. 2.6 million have fallen
off of a stool or a ladder hanging up
decorations.
700,000 have been injured in sales for
Christmas shopping.
In 2014, the average price of what a
family spent was $740.
I long for the day.
The idealized perfect gift.
The idealized perfect dinner with the
family. the idealized holiday.
You may think that's a wonderful thing,
but it actually becomes unrealistic in
your expectations and often leads to
frustrations and depression at this time
of the year because it wasn't perfect.
Comparing our Christmases with other
past Christmases, it's not really a
thing to do, but I have to say the
quarter game last night kind of beat all
the ones we've had before. Anyway, y'all
just have to learn alert about what the
quarter game. If y'all don't do the
quarter game, you need to do the quarter
game because it makes your family look
insane.
That's what we did last time. The lack
of family and friends can really be a
downer to a lot of people. Not just a
downer, but loneliness can invade
sadness, isolation. The end of the year
alone, thinking about, oh, another
year's gone. Oh, lang. Sadness fills
people heart. Melancholy can rule the
day. frustrations, anger, depression,
it's all real. And there are a lot of
sad people maybe in this room right at
this moment. What I'm trying to get
across here at the very beginning is
that your mind can change. And what I
want to suggest to you is is the Bible
gives you a lot of ways that your mind
can be strengthened. So this idea that
you can't do anything about it except
medicate yourself is just not biblically
sound. nor is it true scientifically or
any other way. And I want to say that
the Bible is very clear on the idea that
you can literally renew or make new your
mind. And I want us to focus on that and
look at just four little thoughts and
I'll be done today. Okay. Our primary
text reveals this renewing our mind and
that it can literally lead to
transforming our lives. So if our mind
changes our lives will change and it can
be a permanent and lasting change. So
number one
remove renew and not remove let's remove
our mind renew your mind by the mercies
of God. Look at the text again and I
want to bring just one thought out and
then we'll move on to the next one.
says, "I beseech you therefore,
brethren, by the mercies of God." So the
way this is all going to happen is an
awareness of the mercies of God that you
present your bodies a living sacrifice,
holy, acceptable to God, which is your
reasonable service. Why is it
reasonable? Because we understand the
mercies of God. Verse two, and do not be
conformed to this world, but be
transformed by the renewing of your
mind. How does that happen? you become
more aware of the mercies of God and
that you may prove what is the good and
acceptable and perfect will of God. So
here's the way it works. If you are
works dominated, in other words, you
believe too much about works salvation
and you don't believe enough about grace
salvation,
your mind's kind of stuck. But if you
begin to understand that grace and mercy
is how we are saved, it will change your
minds.
And I don't mean a little bit. It'll
change your mind. You will see the world
totally differently. So if you don't
believe in the mercies of God, you need
to receive the mercies of God and the
grace of God and understand we're saved
by grace through faith. Right? Amen. And
if you understand that, it will change
the way you think about everything
else.
Second lesson,
renew your mind by the teachings of
Jesus. Ephesians chapter 4 verse 21- 24.
If indeed you have heard him and have
been taught by him as the truth is in
Jesus. If you've heard Jesus, been
taught by Jesus as the truth is in
Jesus. Verse 22, that you put off
concerning your former conduct the old
man which grows corrupt according to the
deceitful lust and be renewed in the
spirit of your mind. So your mind can be
renewed and it can become different
again. How? By the teachings of Jesus
and that you put on the new man which
was created according to God in true
righteousness and holiness. Now this may
not sound like it's a truth and I know
you may resist it but listen to me
carefully. It is hearing the teachings
of Jesus versus the teachings and the
doctrine of the church.
It is not an institutional change we
need. It is a relational change we need.
We need the change of our thinking
rather than just being well I'm at the
right church. No, it we must be
following Jesus. Okay. And all of his
teachings. And when that happens, it
changes your minds in a way that just
church doctrine will never do.
Too many people are in church doctrine
and churchianity and not following
Jesus. And if you don't understand what
I just said, then your mind hasn't been
changed yet. Number three,
told you I wouldn't take too long here.
Renew your mind by the image of him. Now
listen to Colossians chapter 3. Here's
the way it puts it. Verse 10. And how
put on saying much of the same kinds of
things it said in Ephesians. But now,
and having put on the new man who is
renewed
in knowledge
according to the image of him who
created him. So your mind is renewed
when you get a better knowledge
of the image
of him. that is the image of Christ.
When you the more you see what Christ
did for you, the more you see his
sacrifice, the more you get your mind
around the idea of his sacrifice and our
debt to him and less engaged in our
sacrifice.
What I mean by that is this.
Oh no, I've got to go to church again.
Oh no, I've got to do something else. Oh
my, how in the world? Oh, I'm so I can't
The singing this the prayers are
horrible. The Oh, it's And and see what
I'm trying to suggest to you is that
wasn't the mind of Christ. That wasn't
the image we get of him. We see him
coming as a servant and sacrificing
himself for all of us. and the rest of
us are going around complaining about
the sacrifices we have to make. When we
gather into our heads the knowledge of
what he did for us and we receive the
understanding of the debt we have toward
him, it will change the way you think
about everything religiously speaking.
And you've either had that happen to you
or you haven't. You will know it when
you begin to realize because you'll stop
complaining.
Number next,
renew your mind by the spirit of
regeneration.
In Titus 3 and verse 5, it says, "Not by
works of righteousness, which we have
done." In other words, you can't really
work your way into heaven. It'd be nice
if you could. We had three things to do.
We did those and we're good. Doesn't
really work that way. Not about works of
righteousness, which we have done. But
according to his mercy, there's that
word again. According to his mercy, he
saved us. So he saved us through his
mercy. Almost sounds like what we read
earlier, is it? Through the washing of
regeneration and renewing of the Holy
Spirit. Yes, that is a reference to
baptism, but it's more than that. And
renewing of the Holy Spirit. Here's the
point. And that is there is a renewing
by or through the Holy Spirit. It comes
at salvation. Absolutely. That's true.
But it comes as we allow it to happen.
Now, I'm going to say something here,
and it's going to probably not make
everybody happy, but listen to me really
carefully. And I get
the word alone
is great.
I understand it has changed us.
But you can become lawbound
and rulebound to the point that you
cannot
see anything but the rules.
And I'm suggesting to you that if you
are word and spirit bound and that is
that you're renewed not just by the word
of God but by the spirit of God so that
you actually see God as an active
participant in your life making you and
helping you make better decisions and
make better steps. When that becomes
your different spirit then there is a
renewal that takes place. That's the
idea about salvation. It isn't just that
I learned a fact. Now I do this and now
I'm good. It's more than that. It's
about a change about the spirit of God
coming to live within me. That's what
this whole thing's about. God within us.
We uh this the Lord becomes flesh within
us. And there's a spirit change within
us. There's literally a spirit change.
And when that happens, there's a
changing of our minds. We see things
differently. I'm not walking through
this world on my own, picking up my
Bible, and that's all I got. No, I'm
being helped. The Holy Spirit is helping
me along the way, helping me develop a
better attitude and a better spirit.
Those things will change your mind. It
will renew your mind. And I hope you can
see that because this is such a simple
lesson. When you you can renew your mind
and and when I say that I mean change
your mind forever
by getting a hold of the mercies of God.
You can renew your mind by the teachings
of Jesus, by trying to follow just Jesus
and not a church, if you will, and by
renewing your mind by the image of him
and duplicating his image in your life
and absorbing it in knowledge of him and
having the same attitude that we are not
complaining about our sacrifices, but
glad to serve the father.
renewing your mind by the spirit of
regeneration. Now, here's an interesting
thing that's happening right now. And I
I find this almost bizarre, but it's
kind of cool, too. It's kind of a weird
thing that's happening right now. There
are models, particularly in the state of
Utah. You might understand why the state
of Utah in just moment, but there are
models being hired in the state of Utah
on a regular basis now that are
lookalites for Jesus. Y'all heard this?
All right. So lookalikes for Jesus are
being hired in the state of Utah to make
family pictures. So a guy dresses up
like Jesus has the beard, the hair and
everything and he sits with family
particularly wedding announcements. So a
couple's getting married and Jesus is
there you know and or there's a funeral
and Jesus is there or or there's a
family get together and Jesus. I know
it's got a weird sounding, but wait now.
There's a guy named Jai Kenton or Naton.
And Jai Nton, he's he's so good at it.
He's getting hired a lot. And they
charge about a hundred to $200 an hour.
By the way, I'm available. But uh so,
but so literally the idea is that he
goes and he portray and he says
portraying Jesus can kind of be tricky.
Never thought about this. Did you?
Portraying Jesus could be tricky. But he
says it can be tricky because they
people will tell you, "I want you to be
the most Christlike person you can be."
Well, what else are you trying to do the
rest of the time? But I want you to be
the most Christlike person you can be.
And and if you don't do that, the people
will be able to tell through the
picture.
How? I don't know. But so, but he says
that when he goes to an appointment,
because apparently this is happening a
lot. I didn't know anything about it. He
says he tries to portray the guy that
depicts Jesus in the chosen. Y'all seen
The Chosen? And so that's who he tries
to act like, dress like, look like. He
said this stoic Jesus is actually
intimidating. People don't like him. So
if you're serious, you know, he they
don't like that. He says, "A Jesus who
smiles and pats you on the back is far
more relatable."
Now, it's going to make a connection in
a moment, but studies have proven
doing something frequently
can literally have permanent effect upon
your brain.
Okay. Mark Batterson quoting a study
that was done by the uh National
uh Institute of Mental Health. He says,
"Dr. AV Carai and Leslie Anger of the
National Institute of Mental Health did
a fascinating study asking subjects to
perform a simple motor task.
This
can y'all do that? Everybody do that?
And while you were doing it, put you in
an MRI machine.
They did all of this right now, here's
what they'd find.
They would discover the part of your
brain that's controlling that
big deal.
So what does that do? Well, they asked
them to do it for four weeks. So for
four weeks, we want you to keep doing
that as much as you could for four
weeks.
After four weeks, they took them all
back in there and they said, "Okay, do
the tapping and turn on the MRI
machine." And they said the area of the
brain that controls this had gotten much
larger.
The thing you give emphasis to
changes the way your neural links are.
The more emphasis you give to it, the
more effort you put into it, literally
the neuroplasticity in your brain
changes the way your brain thinks and
you give more effort to it in your
brain.
That just simply says to me, the more
you act like Jesus,
the more you behave like Jesus,
the more you think like Jesus,
the more your brain changes and you
literally become Jesus.
So, I'm not challenging you today to
just make a simple change this new year.
I'm challenging you to renew your mind.
I want you to think about that. You
could literally change your mind
permanently. If you're in depression,
you can get out.
I'm having a rough time. You can change
that. But you don't know. I felt bad for
years. You can change that.
You can get better. You can get better.
You can do better. You can do better.
You can become more like Jesus. Oh,
that's not possible. We're all sinners.
We just do all bad things. You can do
better.
Simple thing. Renew your mind. If you're
here today and you'd like to renew your
mind, we'll help you any way we can.
Bottom line is start tapping those
fingers in your brain and change the way
you think and improve your life. And
it's your choice today if you will come.
if need you. One we stand and one we
see.
