many things in our thoughts are way too
small.
Uh the World Meteorological
Organization, that's the WMO, recently
announced a study that they had done and
they had confirmed, I mean they really
studied it. It's not maybe they confirm
two uh what they call
u mega
mega lightning flashes mega flashes
and u they didn't happen too long ago
but they've been in a study to make sure
it was true. The big one was 477.2
miles long. So this thing about 36
miles, you know,
lightning can hit you at 36 miles. Uh,
they're wrong.
477.2
miles. It reached from the Houston area
to lower Mississippi.
And what it was and way these occur,
they explained, is that there can be a
series of thunderstorms
that can end up getting aligned
and can be across several states
simultaneously.
And that electrical event can happen
from literally that far to that far. And
they found two of them, but the largest
was 477.2
miles.
So, think about it the next time you're
out there and you think you're safe
because you're playing golf and there's
a bolt of lightning you saw just a
moment ago.
Very big bolts of lightning. There are
other bolts of lightning. I I didn't go
into this very deeply, but I just
remember studying it when I was young.
There are other big bolts of lightning
out on the ocean that can take out a
battleship.
We don't talk about that very often.
They can probably take down an aircraft
carrier. They're called uh well they're
they're between 10 and a hundred times
stronger than anything you've ever seen.
There are some big things in this world
is what I'm trying to make a point. In
fact, in Australia, Sharks Bay,
Australia, they did a study and they
found they were looking at this
seaggrass.
It's in a meadow spreading uh somewhere
in this Sharks Bay area and it is big.
They thought it was multiple plants.
That's what they started. They're
thinking, "How does this happen?" And
they were studying that. They found out
it wasn't multiple plants. It all came
from one seed. It is one plant. How big
is it? It would cover 20,000 football
fields.
It is 77 square miles.
It is three times the size of Manhattan
and they believe it is 4,500
years old.
Jane uh Edgelow was one of the students
that or one of the colleagues that
studied it, took samples of the plants
all over the place trying to determine
how many plants. Well, they did all of
that. No, it was 110 miles long and it's
one plant. Edo went on to say, "The
answer blew us away. There was just one.
That's it. Just one plant has expanded
over 112 miles in Sharks Bay, making it
the largest known plant on Earth." One
of the other researchers chimed in. It
says it appears to be really uh
resilient, experiencing a wide range of
temperatures and salenities plus extreme
high light conditions which are together
with typically being highly stressful
for most plants and yet it lives on.
Some things, what I'm trying to make the
point of is some things, believe it or
not, are much bigger than what you
think.
You think you've got it figured out. And
there's some stuff that's just a lot
bigger than your brain is thinking.
And maybe we need to recognize that.
Maybe our thoughts about the kingdom of
heaven are way, way too small.
The kingdom of heaven is a big idea. No,
no, no. The kingdom of heaven is a big
idea
and bigger than you thought. Let me run
through a few scriptures that suggest
that. Daniel 2 verse 44,
the kingdom of heaven will set up a
king. I mean, the God of heaven will set
up a kingdom which shall break in pieces
and consume all these kingdoms. It
sounds like covering the world. Daniel
7:14, "To him who was given dominion and
glory and a kingdom that all peoples,
nations, and languages should serve him,
the world."
Daniel 7:27, "The greatness of the
kingdom under the whole heaven shall be
given to the people, the saints of the
most high." Isaiah 54:3,
"You shall expand to the right and to
the left, and your descendants will
inherit the nations."
Sounds big. Numbers 14:21.
As I live, all the earth shall be filled
with the glory of the Lord. That's a
swear by the Lord God. Psalm 66:4,
"All the earth shall worship you and
sing praises to you." Isaiah 45:23, "I
have sworn by myself, the word has gone
forth from my mouth in righteousness and
will not turn back, that to me every
knee will bow, every tongue will swear
allegiance."
Zechariah 14:9, "The Lord shall be king
over all the earth." Now, I need to talk
a little bit about this use of the word
kingdom.
You'll notice that that's primarily used
in the book of Matthew. You've noticed
that probably Mark uses the kingdom of
God. The others predominantly use the
kingdom of God. But Matthew uses the
kingdom of heaven. There's a very well
scholars believe there's a very
significant reason for that. They
believe that Matthew written very early,
maybe the first one written. That's what
everybody believes. That's why it's
first in your Bible. Contrary to the
liberal theologians that believe that
Mark was first. Matthew was written
first. And that's what the evidence
suggests by the way. So Matthew being
written first and it was written for the
Jews, right? That's what they pretty
much have concluded. And that's the
reason it's called the kingdom of heaven
and not the kingdom of God. They did
would not have included the word God or
theos in it because they respected the
name of God too much and they won't even
use the word theos. You don't write the
part of the name. So you refer to him as
father or you refer to him as heaven. So
it's the kingdom of heaven. Because out
of respect for the name of God, they
would not dare in any way use the name
of God in a way that would make light of
God in any significant way. But what I'm
trying to get across to you is this is a
big idea. How big is heaven? Well, it's
up.
That's heaven. It's up. So, how big is
that? You tell me cuz I have no idea.
It's big. And I wanted you to get this
core idea that what I want to talk about
today is really big idea. It's not just
a little idea. It's a big idea. In fact,
I believe this is said about all things
true. People try to take this text and
make it about one little thing. But I
think it's from a prophecy and I think
it's about all things that we're talking
about now. 1 Corinthians 2:9. I hath not
seen. By the way, you none of us have
seen God, right? You ever seen God? I
haven't seen him either. Eye hath not
seen. Earath not heard. By the way, have
you ever heard the angel singing in
heaven? Neither have I. Eye has not
seen. Ear hath not heard.
Nor
has it entered
the heart of man.
You've never even
thought of thinking about it.
The things which God hath prepared for
them that love him. This is a big idea.
When you can't even conceive of it,
that's a big idea. Don't you think when
you can't even think about it, that's a
big idea. When I go talking about the
idea of the kingdom of heaven, I want
you to understand this is a big thing
we're a part of. This is not a minor
thing. You may look around this room and
say, "Oh, there's not that many people
there." Oh, no, my friend. We're talking
about a big big idea. A very big idea.
And so Jesus used some really big ideas
to prove that his big idea was real. And
that's what I want to walk you through
five of those ideas. We'll walk through
them quickly. Number one, Jesus preached
the scruples of the kingdom of heaven.
The significance of the scruples of the
kingdom of heaven. Now scruples just
means a feeling of doubt or hesitation
about yourself.
If you never have doubts or hesitations
about yourself and don't think you need
to make any changes, you have no
scruples. You don't need to be in the
kingdom. You should not obey the gospel.
You should go to hell like a gentleman.
Because if you have no scruples, we do
not need you. And God doesn't want you.
You must have scruples
to even be saved.
You cannot be saved without them.
Matthew 4:17.
By the time Jesus began, by that time he
began to preach and say, "Repent for the
kingdom of heaven is at hand." What does
repent mean? Check yourself out. Have
some scruples. Have some hesitancy about
yourself. Look at yourself with a fine
tooth comb and consider that there's
some stuff wrong with you. Amen.
No, that's not an amen. There's some
stuff wrong with you. Amen.
There's stuff wrong with Rex Dutton. I
promise you there's some stuff wrong
with you. That's a reason you need to
repent. And guess who needs to repent?
Everybody on the planet. That's a big
idea. That's a really big idea. Matthew
5 and verse three, blessed are the poor
in spirit for theirs is the kingdom of
heaven. Oh, I don't like that talk.
Yeah, because you don't understand.
Everybody's got to decide you're poor in
spirit or you can't get into the kingdom
of heaven.
In Matthew 18:es 1-4 it says at that
time the disciples came to Jesus saying
who then is greatest in the kingdom of
heaven. Then Jesus called a little child
to him and set him in their midst and
said assurely I say unto you unless you
are converted.
That's change. Got to have some scruples
and become as little children you will
by no means enter the kingdom. You're
not even going to enter the kingdom.
Therefore, whoever humbles himself, says
there's stuff wrong with me, humbles
himself as a little child, he's the
greatest in the kingdom of heaven. I
can't do this. That's what you've got to
conclude within yourself or you can't be
saved. Matthew 19:14, but Jesus said,
"Let the little children come to me, and
do not forbid them, for of such is the
kingdom of heaven." Little children know
they're not great at everything. They
can't do it all. They some of them know
they can't even tie their shoe, but they
try.
In John chapter 3:es 3 and 5, it says,
"Jesus answered and said to them,"Most
assuredly I say to you, unless one is
born again." That's a real change,
folks. Everybody's got to be born again,
he cannot see the kingdom of God. Jesus
went on to say in verse 5, Jesus
answered, "Most assuredly I say to you,
unless one is born of water and the
spirit, he cannot enter the kingdom of
heaven." So Jesus preached this big
kingdom and he proved the reality of it
by suggesting that everybody's got to
develop some scruples.
Got to decide there's some stuff wrong
with me.
Number two,
Jesus preached the principles of the
kingdom of heaven. There's all kinds of
principles of the kingdom of heaven, but
one of the great places is the sermon on
the mount. Matthew 5:10. Blessed are
those who are persecuted for
righteousness sake, for theirs is the
kingdom of heaven. That means they want
to be righteous and that gets them in
trouble. That's a principle to live by.
In Matthew 5 19 and 20, it says this,
"Whoever therefore breaks one of the
least of these commandments and teaches
men shall be called least in the kingdom
of heaven. But whoever does and teaches
them, he shall be called great in the
kingdom of heaven. For I say to you that
unless your righteousness exceeds the
righteousness of the scribes and the
Pharisees, they had an external one.
They didn't really have an internal one.
You will by no means enter the kingdom
of heaven unless you're righteous on the
outside and righteous on the inside.
That's a principle of life. In Matthew
chapter 6 and verse 33, still in the
sermon on the mount, it says, "But seek
first first the kingdom of God and his
righteousness, and all these things
shall be added to you." Matthew chapter
7 and verse 21. Not everyone who says to
me, Lord, Lord, shall enter the kingdom
of heaven, but he who does the will of
my father in heaven. There are some
principles you have to live by. There's
some things you must do.
You can't just live your life the way
you want.
Well, you can, but you don't get to be
in the kingdom. And later after the
sermon on the mount, Matthew chapter 8
10-12, it says this. When Jesus heard
it, he marveled and said to those who
followed, assuredly I say to you, I have
not found such great faith, not even in
Israel. It's the people that supposed to
be following me supposed to be the
kingdom of heaven. They don't have faith
like this. And I say to you that many
will come from east and west and
hopefully that includes you and me,
right? And sit down with Abraham, Isaac,
and Jacob in the kingdom of heaven, but
the sons of the kingdom will be cast out
into outer darkness. There will be
weeping and nashing of teeth. Certainly,
that's already been proved since
Jerusalem has been destroyed by the
Romans and the temple burned. Yes. So
Jesus preached a big idea and he proved
the reality of it by preaching these big
idea principles of real righteousness
internally externally.
Number three,
Jesus preached the parables of the
kingdom of heaven. This idea is so big
that if you develop it and you just tell
people straight up, they can't even
receive it. I want you to think about an
idea so big that if God tells you
straight up, you can't even listen to
it. He has to present it in little
stories so it's bite-size enough for you
to receive it. Now, just think about
that idea. That's how big this idea is
of the kingdom. And then he goes into
it. I won't go through all of them, but
I will just kind of give you a little
idea of what we're talking about.
Matthew chapter 13:10-11 it says, "And
the disciples came and said to him, why
do you speak to them in parables?" He
answered and said, "Because it has been
given to you to know the mysteries of
the kingdom of heaven, but to them it
has not been given. It's so big some
folks just can't receive it just yet.
And if we laid it right in front of
them, they might come with pitchforks
after us. They don't like don't like the
idea."
In Matthew 13:4, he goes on to say,
"Another parable he put forth to them,
saying, "The kingdom of heaven," and
here's the point you need to always
hear. The kingdom of heaven is like,
he's like a man who swed good seed in
the field. And in Matthew 13:31, it
says, "Another parable he put forth to
them, saying, the kingdom of heaven is
like a mustard seed, which a man took
and swed in the field." I'm not
explaining these right now. It's a
little too time consuming right now.
Verse 33, same Matthew 13 says another
parable he spoke to them. The kingdom of
heaven is like leaven which a woman took
and hid in three measures a meal till it
was all leaven. And then Matthew 13
verse 44 it says again the kingdom of
heaven is like treasure hidden in a
field. Verse 45 again the kingdom of
heaven is like a merchant seeking
beautiful pearls. Verse 47 again the
kingdom of heaven is like a drag net. In
Matthew 18:23, therefore the kingdom of
heaven is like a certain king who wanted
to settle accounts with his servants.
Matthew 20 and verse one, the kingdom of
heaven is like a land motor landowner
who went out early in the morning to
hire laborers for his vineyard. Matthew
22:es 1 and 2, Jesus spoke to them again
by parables and said, "The kingdom of
heaven is like a certain king who
arranged a marriage for his son."
Matthew 25:1, then the kingdom of heaven
shall be likened to 10 virgins who took
their lamps and went out to meet the
bridegroom. And then Matthew 25:14, the
kingdom of heaven is like a man
traveling to a far country who called
his own servants and delivered his goods
to them.
He preached a big kingdom
and proved its reality with parables
because the ideas were too big for
normal people to receive them.
This is a big idea.
Number four,
Jesus preached the miracles of the
kingdom of heaven
in Matthew 12 and verse 28. But if I
cast out demons, and remember this is to
prove the reality of the kingdom and
that it is possible,
can happen to you. It can happen to me.
And the proof he said was his miracles.
But if I cast out demons by the spirit
of God, surely the kingdom of God has
come upon you,
right?
If I can do this, you should know God's
involved in this because people can't do
this. That's what he's saying. In Luke
chapter 7, quite a lengthy passage, but
I love it. I want to do 12-22. says,
"Near the gate of the city, behold, a
dead man was being carried out, the only
son of his mother." So she's and she was
a widow. So she's a widow, have nobody
to bring. She might have had daughters,
but got nobody to really take care of
her. And a large crowd from the city was
with her. When the Lord saw her, notice
not him, the one that's dead. When the
Lord saw her,
he had compassion on her. He felt sorry
for a widow.
Probably his mother was a widow at this
point. Had compassion on her and said,
"Do not weep." Then he came and touched
the open coffin. And those who carried
him stood still, and he said, "Young
man, I say to you, arise."
H.
So when
he said that, he who was dead sat up and
began to speak. I'd have dropped the
coffin. I'm sorry.  Right
there. And it says, "And he presented
him to his mother. And then the
disciples of John reported, this is
verse 18, reported to him concerning all
these things. And John calling two of
his disciples to him." So he heard about
this this young man being raised and he
sent they sent these disciples of John
to Jesus saying are you the coming
wonder we look for another why is he
saying that because Jesus didn't take up
the same message that John had been
preaching Herod it's not lawful for you
to have her got him nearly killed Jesus
didn't take up that and Jesus never
preached that and John's going I'm going
to jail get my head cut off and you're
not taking up this you're not fighting
for me within
Nope.
Proves to you, by the way, everything a
preacher says is not gold. Verse 20.
When the men had come to him, they said,
"John the Baptist was sent to us uh us
to you, saying, "Are you the coming one
or do we look for another?"
He's having doubts. And he saw the Holy
Spirit descend on Jesus and he's having
doubts because he's about to die. Verse
21. And that very hour did he that is
Jesus cured many of infirmities,
afflictions, and evil spirits. And so
many blind, he saw many blind gave
sight. And then verse 22, Jesus answered
and said to them, "Go and tell John the
things you have seen and heard that the
blind see, the lame walk, the lepers are
cleansed, the deaf hear, the dead are
raised, the poor have the gospel
preached to them." That's enough proof
for anybody.
This is real. Luke 11:20. But if I cast
out demons with the finger of God,
surely the kingdom of God has come to
you. In Acts 1:3, he also presented
himself alive after sufferings by many
infallible proofs, being seen by them
during 40 days. And speaking of the
infallible, uh, I mean, uh, speaking of
the things pertaining to the kingdom of
God, read wrong. Hebrews chapter 2:es 3
and 4 it says, "How shall we escape if
we neglect so great a salvation which is
the first began to be spoken by the Lord
and was confirmed to us by those who
heard him and God also bearing witness
both with signs and wonders with various
miracles and gifts of the Holy Spirit
according to his will." Miracles were
not for the entertainment or the
blessing or of the church forever. It
was to prove what was being done was the
result of Jesus coming and the kingdom
of heaven being established. So Jesus
preached this big kingdom idea and he
proved it with the reality of these big
events called miracles.
We shouldn't expect that today because
the kingdom doesn't need to be proved
over and over again. At some point you
got to say, "I've seen enough. I know
enough." Number last, number five. Jesus
preached the lovables of the kingdom of
heaven. What was it that makes you love
the kingdom? Here it is. John 3:16. For
God so loved the world that he gave his
only begotten son that whosoever
believes in him should not perish but
have everlasting life. That'll make you
love God right there. But more Mark 2:es
28-34. Then one of the scribes came and
having heard him reasoning together
perceived that he had answered them well
and asked him which is the first
commandment of all. So this is a guy
that actually knows his book. Jesus
answered the first of all the
commandments is here. O Israel, the Lord
our God, the Lord is one. And you shall
love the Lord your God with all your
heart and with all your soul and with
all your mind and with all your
strength. This is the first commandment.
And the second like it is this. You
shall love your neighbor as yourself.
There is no other commandments greater.
Verse 32. The scribe said to him, well
said, teacher.
You have spoken the truth. And to love
him and to love one's neighbor is more
than all whole burnt offerings and
sacrifices.
When Jesus saw that, he answered him
wisely. He said, "You're not far from
the kingdom of God."
So, it's a big idea, but not everybody
can receive it. There's plenty of love
in it, but not everybody. And listen to
me, and you may be one of them. You may
have lived a life that you have a hard
time believing anybody can love you.
Things may have been done to you. You've
been hurt and you don't know how to
experience it. This big idea of the
kingdom of how much he loves us is a big
idea. But it proves it's really from
heaven and not from man.
So that's the lesson. Jesus proved the
reality of the kingdom of heaven because
he preached scruples. You got to see
yourself the way you are. Hesitate about
yourself and change
principles. You got to be righteous. You
got to live a certain way. He preached
parables, hard things that are hard to
receive that people had to get it in
these stories because you couldn't
receive it. It's such a big idea.
Miracles which are too big to fit in
your head. Somebody dead. He touched
him. He got out of his coffin. Lovables
that God actually loves me enough to let
Jesus die on the cross. Heaven is a big
idea. These are big changes that we're
experiencing if we come into it. It's a
big thing. It's almost baffles the mind
when you start thinking about what's
being expected of us that heaven must
come into me.
That's a big idea.
Corey Tinboon,
most of you probably know her story, but
Corey Tinboon was put into a
concentration camp because she helped
hide some Jews from the Nazis.
She was put in in 1947
with her sister. They lived among the uh
fleas to keep the men out.
And uh her sister
died in the camp. She barely survived.
She was in Ravensbrook. If you know
anything about the camps,
she went around after she got out and
she talked about becoming a Christian.
She was a Christian. Got her through and
that you could just endure anything if
Christ was with you. You could forgive
anything, live any way you could survive
if you are a Christian. She did a lot of
those speeches. She gave one in Munich.
At the one in Munich, after it was over
with, a man stepped to her
and it was the man in Ravensbrook who
had been a guard.
He was the one that had mocked the women
when they were naked being led into the
showers
making fun of them.
And suddenly he shoved out his hand at
her and said, "A fine message,
Floraline.
How good it is to know, as you say, all
our sins are at the bottom of the ocean.
Stuck in her throat. She saw him with
his hand out. She froze.
This is the man who did those things to
us. He was the meanest one there.
And now I'm face to face
with him.
She said I didn't stick out my hand.
He spoke again. You mentioned
Ravensbrook in your talk. I was a guard
there.
He wouldn't have recognized her. But
since that time, he said, I've become a
Christian. I know that God has forgiven
me for the cruel things I did there, but
I would like to hear it from your lips.
For a line
again, he stuck out his hand.
Will you forgive me?
She said in my mind at that moment was
Betsy who died in that camp, my sister
and the horrible things he had done.
But that soldier stood in front of me
expectant of forgiveness. She said, "I
wrestled with the most difficult thing
I'd ever had to do
for I had to do it. I knew that the
message that God forgives as a prior
condition that we forgive those who have
injured us."
Standing before me as an SS troop man.
And then she thought, "I can't do it.
I can't do it.
But then she thought forgiveness is an
act of the will not an emotion. So she
prayed
Jesus help me.
I can lift my hand.
I can do that much. Can you supply the
feeling?
And with that she thrust out her hand.
She said as she did that an incredible
thing took place. It was like a current
that started in my shoulder and raced
down my arm, sprang into my hand, and
this healing warmth flooded across my
whole being, bringing tears to my eyes,
and I said, "I forgive you, brother,
with all my heart. I forgive you."
She said, 'I never have since then
known the blessing
of what Christ can do for me in that
strong of a way. Doug Oldham, Lori and
Bill Gaither in 1968,
inspired by the story of Corey Chinbo in
the story I just told you, wrote a song.
That song is
I believe in a hill called Mount
Calvary.
I believe whatever the cost and when a
time has surrendered and earth is no
more, I'll still cling to the old rugged
cross. But that's wonderful. But the
best words are in this line.
I believe that the Christ who was slain
on the cross has the power to change
lives today. That's the big idea.
For he changed me completely.
A new life is mine.
And that's why by the cross I
will stay.
It's a big idea. Can you receive it?
Maybe you can, maybe you can't. If you
don't have the scruples, you won't. But
if you're here today and you feel it,
won't you come while we stand and while
we
