So Christmas can seem a little like to
some people like it's become too
important. You may be one of those who
feel like well especially with the gifts
it's become too important. So I was
looking up about  gifts
and I went to this site called uh
statistics brain and I found there uh
what's been the gift for the last
several years. So I thought I thought
you'd find this interesting. Uh, do you
remember 1983? Some of you weren't even
born in 1983, but remember 1983, it was
a thing called a cabbage patch doll,
right? All the little girls had them.
1985, it was a pound puppy. You remember
that?
1989, it was Game Boy. Yeah. It's about
a hundred bucks and we thought that was
like the moon price.
Uh, 1995 it was Beanie Baby. Okay. And
then 1996 it was tickle me Elmo mode.
Remember that?
Uh 2002 it was a new iPod
and 2006 it was Wii.
&gt;&gt; In 2010 it was a Kindle.
In 2011 it was Angry Bird's board game.
In 2013, it was Doc McStuffins's doll. I
don't remember that. Sorry. In 2015, you
will remember this one. It was Frozen
Singalong Elsa doll.
In 2020, it was the child, also known as
the Yoda Baby. Y'all remember that? In
2023,
for boys, it was Legos. And for girls it
was Barbie.
So it's always something. I have no idea
what the big deal is right now, but
there's something out there probably
that is the big deal. And so because of
some of the emphasis on Christmas and
the way we approach it, it may seem like
it's been given too much attention. And
I want to disagree with that. Can I
disagree with that just for a moment? I
believe the birth of Jesus has changed
the world. And maybe you don't realize
how it's changed the world. How many
different ways it's changed the world.
It's changed the world for children.
Children once were routinely uh left to
die by exposure when they were not
wanted outside of houses.
In fact, that's not too long ago was
true in China. And then they decided to
only have one child per household. And
it was always more true for girls than
it was for boys. So, girls were often
left outside, little babies left outside
to die because they're just children.
Uh, a Norwegian scholar named Bake uh
wrote a study of this whole thing and it
was titled when children became people,
the birth of childhood in early
Christianity. And the reason they say it
was because Jesus paid attention to
children that the whole world started
looking at children differently.
Education changed
in the ancient world. It's true that
people loved education but it was always
and only for the elite. It was not for
the common man. So every child though in
in the way we understand Christianity,
every child bears the image of the Lord
God. And so that fueled the idea that
every child should be literate. And so
universities sprung up. And by the way,
these universities started not to be
what you would call liberal arts, but
rather were started because they wanted
to teach about Jesus. Oxford, Cambridge,
Harvard, William and Mary, and the list
could go on and on. And it was all about
Jesus. And it was also about the mind.
If we were going to love God with all of
our mind, we needed to expand our mind.
So, literally, it's changed the world,
the birth of Jesus. What about
compassion? It's changed the world when
it relates to compassion. Because once
upon a time, the lepers were skirted,
put out the side of the road. You don't
touch them. You don't see them. You
don't deal with them. You don't treat
them. But after Jesus and his attention
to lepers, leper colonies and
institutions sprung up, hospitals arose
because Jesus went about healing people.
And so it became a thought that
Christians should be about helping to
heal people. And then you hear of
hospitals that sprung up. I bet you've
heard of some of these names. Good
Samaritan Hospital, the Good Sheeperd
Hospital, St. Jude Children's Hospital
and various charitable hospitals around
the world because Jesus gave that kind
of attention to it. Humility. Humility
once was not a thing you wanted to be
known for. In the ancient world, it was
actually considered a bad thing. Even to
our day, there are a lot of people that
think if you're humble, you're weak.
They don't understand humility. So, but
in their world it's even worse because a
virtue was not humility. Virtue was not
something that you would uh want to be a
part of in the sense of humility.
Footwashing was not a thing until Jesus
came on the scene and wash feet and he
was humble and it was widely admired.
Historian John Dixon writes about that.
It is unlikely that any of us would
aspire to this virtue of humility were
it not for the historical impact of his
crucifixion and willing to humble
himself to the point of death.
Forgiveness was not a virtue in the
world that Jesus was in the ancient
world. Uh the virtue of forgiveness was
not considered one. If you had virtue,
it meant you rewarded your friends and
you punished your enemies. And that's
the way the world works. A lot of people
try to live that way to this very day.
But those of us who've been influenced
about the birth of Jesus see that
forgiveness is critical. Loving your
enemies is what we try to do. We try to
be reconciled to everyone. But that's
because of the coming of Jesus.
Humanitarian reform is has happened
because of the birth of Jesus. It's been
championed and because of the inclusion
that Jesus gave to women. Let's be
honest. If we're just a brutal society,
all you women are going to get kicked to
the curb because us men are stronger
than you. We can beat you up in almost
any situation. We may not be smarter
than you, but we're tougher than you. We
were built that way. And there be there
might be two women in here that could
beat up a man or two, and I would be the
one that you would do it to. But but
truthfully, most of you aren't as strong
as we are. And it was that kind of
world.
That's the world Jesus came into. That's
the world that's been changed by Jesus.
People want to mock Christianity and
say, "We don't let women have their
day." We're the ones who gave you that
day through Christ. Not the world. We
recognized it. And slaves were treated
horrendously, but those who found
Christ, that changed. And as a result in
the early church, it was actually
instructed to the bishops of churches
that whenever someone came in who was a
slave, you would wash their feet maybe
even first. But you did not take care of
the wealthy first. If the wealthy came
in, you ignored them. You don't
interrupt the service and stand up for
them. Rather, it was for the poor that
you would stand up and you would give
them your seat and you would sit on the
floor. And that's the attitude of the
early church. So the world has changed
because of Christmas. So I don't think
emphasizing Christmas and the birth of
Christ is anything inappropriate at all.
I think maybe we don't do it enough
because the changes that you're
experiencing in joy came through
Christ's birth.
But now I want us to look at seven great
truths about how Christmas was God's
unexpected
unexpected plan. Luke 1 26. If you got
your Bibles out, we're going to know me
in Luke chapter 1. That's where we'll
be. Luke chapter 1.
Number one, God's Christmas unexpected
and unthinkable
messenger plan. Listen to what happened.
And it says in verse 26, "Now in the
sixth month, the angel Gabriel," he's
got a name. So angels have names
apparently. The angel Gabriel was sent
by God. God called him up, said, "This
is what you're going to do." Imagine
that whole scenario. I can't even
imagine that. The angel Gabriel will sit
by God to a city of Galilee named
Nazareth. Now, what's significant about
this and what's makes this totally
unexpected is the only time Gabriel was
ever mentioned was in Daniel chapter 8
and chapter 9. And that was 550 years
before this. How old are angels? How
long do they live? Are they eternal?
This is something that was never
expected. Quite honestly, such a thing
was not expected in their day. And by
the way, it isn't expected today, is it?
Ain't that interesting?
Number next,
God's Christmas unexpected and
unthinkable
magnification plan. Look, and I know
some of you who are so anti- Catholic
need to calm down just a minute and
listen to this. Look at verses 27 and
28. To a virgin betrothed,
that's significant in it. never known a
man. Wonderful thing, ladies. What a
great thing to to bring into your
marriage if you can. What a wonderful
thing to aspire to. Amen. Amen, Ruth.
To a virgin betroth, to a man whose name
was Joseph of the house of David. The
virgin's name keeps emphasizing that
it's a virgin. The virgin's name was
Mary. And having come in,
the angel said to her, "Rejoice,
highly favored one. The Lord is with
you. Blessed are you among women." Oh,
and that is so true. She was special.
She was the only one that ever had
God's son.
That's it.
But here's what made her even more
special. Listen to me. You got to hear
this. What made her more special is
nobody was going to believe this.
Even to this day, people don't believe
it. The best way to write this off is
that Mary messed around with somebody
else before she came up with Joseph.
That she was not pure. That's the best
way to write it off. And so as a result,
John 8:41,
it says, speaking to Jesus, because he's
trying to suggest something about that
they're not where they ought to be, he
they say back to him, we weren't born of
fornication.
You know, the implication is the rumor
had been around the whole time, the
whole life of Jesus. Yeah, we know where
you came from. You're from fornication.
Your mother was not pure. And here's the
truth. She has been
praised. And by the way, still should
be. She bore the son of God.
I hear a loud amen. Rof. Number two.
Number three.
God's Christmas unexpected an
unthinkable manifestation plan. Look at
verses 29 and 30 through 30. But when
she saw him, she was troubled. Folks, I
want to tell you something. Angels show
up in my bedroom, I'm going to be
troubled, too.
I I don't know what they look like, but
I suspect they look different. But when
she saw him, she was troubled at his
saying. So, it wasn't just his look, it
was his saying, what he said, and
considered the manner of greeting this
was. Then the angel said to her, "Do not
be afraid." So she was scared is what it
means. Do not be afraid, Mary, for you
have found favor with God. Now what
makes this really neat and something you
need to think about, there are only 26
recorded events where angels appeared in
the Old Testament.
26. I don't know how many angels there
are, but I know that there it's 10,000
times 10,000 and thousands of thousands
recorded. I know those numbers. I don't
know how big those numbers are. Those
are the biggest numbers they had and
they just multiplied them time each
other. Whatever that is. And so what
number that is, you don't know. And I
don't know. And for all I I it might be
infinite. It looks like the stars are
infinite in number. So maybe it's an
infinite number. I don't know. But
here's the deal. For only 26 to have
made a trip down here, I would say
that's pretty rare.
So if you're sitting around saying, "Why
haven't I seen one?" Well, it's only
been 26. What made you so special? Okay.
So, I mean, it wouldn't be a shocker if
you spent your entire life and never
seen one, not would it? But it is a
manifestation of God. These are called
theophanes. When an angel appears and
speaks for God, that's a theophony. The
angel talks like he's God, but he isn't.
But he talks in God's headstead.
Number six,
God's Christmas unexpected and
unthinkable uh unthinkable mission plan.
What was the plan of all this? What's
the mission of all this? Nobody
believed. Nobody s folks what I'm
telling you, nobody saw any of this
coming.
You say, "Well, it's all prophesied."
Nobody saw any of what we're reading
about coming. They did not see this.
Nobody saw this coming. Nobody. What's
the plan? What they had in mind and what
showed up is two different things. Verse
31. And behold, you will conceive in
your womb and bring forth a son and
shall call his name Jesus.
He will be great
and will be called the son of the
highest.
Look at the Old Testament. See if you
can find where it says he'll be called
Jesus.
Okay, back. He will be, they weren't
expecting this. And he will be great and
he will be called the son of the highest
and the Lord God will give him the
throne of his father David. Now they
wanted a Messiah to reign on the throne
of David. They wanted that. But what
they didn't expect and he will reign
over the house of Jacob forever.
And of his kingdom there will be no end.
They didn't have in mind a forever king,
a divine king. They had in mind a man
that could kill giants and lead victory
for Israel. No, they weren't expecting
this mission at all.
And that's often the way it is in your
life and my life, right? We don't expect
the mission that God gives us. Have you
noticed?
Number next,
God's Christmas unexpected and
unthinkable motherhood plan.
Look at verses 34
and 35. It says this. Then Mary said to
the angel,
"How
how can this be since I do not know a
man? I'm engaged, but I don't know a man
yet. In verse 35, and the angel answered
and said to her, the Holy Spirit will
come upon you, and the power of the
highest will overshadow you. Therefore,
also the holy one who is to be born will
be called the son of God. In Genesis 3
15- 16, he makes it very clear that it
was not going to be through a man, but
it was going to be through woman. See,
woman was the first to sin and therefore
God chose that it must be through woman
that salvation comes into the world. How
could that be? Well, the man transferred
the guilt of sin. The woman, however,
didn't apparently do that. So, we bear
what our fathers gave us, Adam. Whereas,
she did not do that. See, she didn't
bear the guilt of that to her. She bore
it herself, but she didn't transfer it.
So what we're talking about here is a
holy child. Now I know the Catholics
have you have this immaculate conception
of Mary. That's not the significance.
All of you ladies have no transfer of
the guilt of sin. None of you done that.
That's all on us. That all flows through
us. But salvation flowed through a
woman, not through the man. And so to
imagine that there would be a holy child
to never having sinned, nothing like
that had ever been heard of. Nobody had
that in mind. It was an unexpected and
unknowable event.
Number six, I think this is six. God's
Christmas unexpected and unthinkable
miracle plan. I want you to look at the
miracle verse 36 and 37. Now indeed,
Elizabeth, your relative has also
conceived a son in her old age. How many
of you above 40 want to have a baby? How
about above 50? Anybody above 60 want to
get in line to have a baby? How about
70? You want to have a baby at 70?
Might not have wanted to have one at 35.
So, I'm just saying
that's half that. Listen now. Indeed,
Elizabeth, your relative has also
conceived a son in her old age. And this
is now the sixth month for her. See,
she's passed the dangerous period
generally, but now she still got out of
that child. Sixth month for her who was
called barren. She was known as barren.
They had never had any children. You
know what? If you are beyond having
children and suddenly out of the blue,
you have a child and it's because an
angel told you, I'm going to put that in
a pretty big miracle category. You going
to put that in a pretty I'm going to put
that in a really big miracle. Now I'm
going to tell you how big of a miracle
category that is. That's a bigger
miracle category than if a young virgin
messes around and has a baby out of
wedlock.
If that's what people say happened to
Mary, it's nothing compared to what
happened to Elizabeth. However, if she
doesn't know a man, then that's one of
the greatest miracles that have ever
happened. a miracle plan. Nobody
expected this. Nobody understood this.
Nobody foresaw this. Even the prophet
that said the prophecy about it, it
could be interpreted as only what
happened in the next chapter to Mayhar
Shallah Hashbass.
That's right. Go back and read chapter 8
of Isaiah. So the last thought I want
you to get is God's Christmas unexpected
and unthinkable ministry plan. What's
the ministry? I'm not talking about the
ministry of Jesus. I'm talking about the
ministry of Mary. Look at verse 38. Then
Mary said, "Behold
the m"
This catches me off guard. I'm tell you
straight up. She's just had this visit
and this is her response.
Behold
the maid servant of the Lord.
that famous statement, let it be
to me according to your word.
Look what she just signed up for.
She had no knowledge of this before
this. She didn't see this coming. She
didn't know it. Nobody knew it. Nobody
expected it. It was unknowable.
And she signs up. Where do I sign?
If you're going to raise the son of God,
the savior of the world, where do I
sign? Everybody's going to think you did
this out of wedlock. Where do I sign?
Nobody's going to believe you. Where do
I sign?
Paul McCartney and John Lennon wrote,
"And in my hour of darkness, she's
standing right in front of me speaking
words of wisdom. Let it be.
Let me do just what God wants me to do.
What a truth. Now, there it is. That's
what I want you to see is Christmas is
God's unexpected plan. Nobody saw this
coming, my brother, my sister. They
didn't see the messenger coming that was
550 years old. Plus, they didn't see
this magnification of Mary. Never saw
that coming. They never saw the
manifestation of angels coming. They
didn't see that coming. The mission that
was going to be Jesus, that it was going
to be eternal. They didn't see that
coming. They didn't understand the
motherhood thing that she was going to
have to face. Nobody had ever heard of
such a thing as a baby being born to
somebody who didn't know a man. The
miracle being more significant than
almost any miracle that ever happened in
the birth of Jesus. And they didn't see
the ministry that would be required out
of a little maid servant.
So, let's bathe.
not just enjoy Christmas. Let's bathe in
it.
Let's bathe in the profound beauty of
the truth about Christmas, the birth of
Jesus. I think we need to have a
transformation over this subject.
Okay,  let me go where I want.
Y'all know that's uh uh the movie about
Scrooge or the the book about Scrooge
and what's the name of that thing?
Christmas Carol. How does A Christmas
Carol fit that? I just don't get it.
Anyway, so but anyway, it's a story
about a miser Scrooge. Okay, y'all know
the story, right? I'm not going to
retell the whole story, but you know the
story that he's a miser, right? It's all
about him. It's all about his money.
He's really mean to everybody, but he's
transformed. He is literally
transformed. That's what I'm calling you
to right now. He was really transformed.
What he's transformed by? Well, his old
dead buddy, you know, comes to him. He's
a ghost and he starts and then he
introduces you to the ghost of Christmas
past and the ghost of Christmas present
and the ghost of the future. He
introduces him to all of that. And when
it's all over, he's so transformed by
awareness of how bad he's been. He
becomes aware of his desperate state.
When he wakes up,
he's so transformed.
He wants to know. He doesn't even know
how long this happened. So he rushes to
the window, shouts out to a little boy
on the street, "What day is it?" Little
boy says, "Today.
What day is it?"
Well, it's Christmas Day, sir.
I haven't missed it.
I haven't missed it. I hope that's what
you say.
Haven't missed my chance to change.
I think there is a there's a
an easy way we can go is we just refuse
to change. We refuse to be transformed.
We refuse to be transformed by
Christmas.
So, uh, one man owned this beautiful
car. Some of you got some really nice
cars, right? That's great. Well, he this
was his baby. He had really dalled it
up. It was a convertible. It was
beautiful. He loved his car. This is way
back. You know when you used to go for
rides? Y'all remember when you used to
go for rides on Sunday? Anybody remember
that? Anybody old enough to remember
when you used to get in your car and
drive around in your car because it's
too hot in the house and just you just
drive around. Where were you going?
Nowhere. Just driving around. Y'all
remember that? Y'all don't even remember
that. That's back in the 60s. I'm
telling you. So, he's just going driving
around. Well, he was driving around his
beautiful car on on a and he's just
enjoying it. He's loving his car. And as
he's going down this country road,
there's some curves and he's going
through. He's really enjoying it. He's
got some power in that vehicle. He's
gunning it. He's enjoying it. Here comes
a car around the corner. It's just
coming and it's over in its lane, but
it's just an ugly little car. And it
starts coming over into his lane. and
it's coming kind of at him and it keeps
coming more and more in his this is his
beauty you know he doesn't want to
scratch up his car and he's like so he
starts pulling over and he's almost off
the road and this this he keeps coming
and it's coming straight at him he pulls
where he's got one wheel off the road
now and this car is still coming and all
of a sudden it zooms past him and the
lady there's a lady inside and she yells
out at him as she goes by pig
well made him so mad he's already mad
mad. He yells out, "Cal!"
And he regains, pulls back on the road,
regains his composure, and thinks, "What
a crazy place this is." And he guns it
around the corner, hits the biggest pig
in the middle of the road, destroys his
car.
You know, sometimes we misunderstand
what somebody's trying to say to him.
You may be misunderstanding what I'm
trying to say to you. I think it isn't
that you should change anything you're
doing at Christmas. That's not what I'm
talking about. I'm talking about you
need to be aware of what's been done for
you and it's unexpected and it you
what's coming at you is unexpect. You
think you know your future. You don't
know your future. Not a person in here
knows what's happening tomorrow. Not one
of us. It's unknowable. We don't know
what God What is God's mission for my
life? I I have no idea and neither do
you. But we need to embrace it because
our God rules. Our God reigns and we
need to trust what God's doing in this
world. And I know that some of you may
go a ba humbug about Christmas. But you
need to change your attitude because
what God did in the birth of Jesus has
made your world beautiful. Without that,
you and I live in darkness.
Rejoice in the work of Mary. I know. Oh,
we can't talk about Mary. Rejoice in the
work of Mary. Blessed was she among
women. Absolutely. Not a one of you had
the son of God, ladies. But she did.
She did. And that will be with her
forever.
Forever in heaven.
Yeah. Will we esteem her for it?
Absolutely. forever.
So, rejoice in the work of Mary. Rejoice
in the angel's work. Rejoice. I can't
wait to meet Gabriel. Amen. I want to
meet Gabriel.
But rejoice mainly in the work of Jesus,
his mission, his kingdom, his miracles,
his ministry, his all because he has
changed us. If you're here today and you
haven't been changed, there's still a
chance.
It's It's still a chance. I haven't
missed it. Here's the invitation. Don't
miss it while we stand and while we
sing.
