So, I think it's important to try not to
be negative anytime, but I think it's
especially important to try not to be
too negative at Christmas.
Sometimes we think about life as well,
it's not like it used to be and we kind
of complain about life, but I don't
think that's wise because Ecclesiastes
says that. Ecclesiastes 7:10 says, "Do
not say, why were the former days better
than these?
for you do not inquire wisely concerning
this.
So maybe all of this uh oh I remember
was not the best thing for you. Maybe we
need to learn to be happy where we are
and what God has allowed us to be able
to see and know and do right now. You
see, if our greatest need had been
information,
then God would have sent us a professor.
If our greatest need in this world had
been technology, as some people think,
then God would have sent us a scientist.
If our greatest need had been money, cuz
some of us feel like that's what our
greatest need is right now. But if our
greatest need had been money, God would
have sent us an economist.
If our greatest need had been pleasure,
we're just not enjoying life enough,
then God would have sent us an
entertainer.
If our greatest need had been to get all
our politics right, then God would have
sent us a politician.
But our greatest need was not that. Our
greatest need was forgiveness.
And so God sent us a savior.
That's who he is. So don't say look what
the world has come to. Can you believe
what the world has come to? Please stop
saying that and start saying rather look
what has come to the world.
Be positive in this time.
The coming Messiah was prophesied by
many. Literally hundreds if not
thousands of references to the Messiah
all through the Old Testament
by various prophets.
The oldest and most ancient prophet of
all was Moses. No one writes in the Old
Testament that we know of before 1400
BC. And Moses is the one. And Moses
writes about things that happened much
earlier. He makes several prophecies
about the Messiah. In Genesis 3, he
says, "I will put enmity between you and
the woman, between your seed and her
seed. He that is her seed, her seed
shall bruise your head," speaking to
Satan. "And you shall bruise his heel,"
referring to when he was crucified.
Genesis 22, Moses says, "And Abraham
said, my son, God will provide for
himself the lamb for a burnt offering."
So the two of them went on together,
"God will provide himself."
Oh yes. In Deuteronomy 18, Moses writes,
"The Lord your God will raise up," isn't
that interesting, those terms, "will
raise up for you a prophet like me from
your midst, from your brethren. Him you
shall hear." Oh yes. Moses made it clear
a Messiah was coming. He made it clear.
Even if the other prophets had not, he
made it clear. The very first prophet we
have made it clear the coming Messiah
that is Christ Jesus was prefigured. Not
just prophesied, not just foretold, but
he was prefigured. We see him in the
life of Joseph.
Rejected,
then enslaved,
then coronated,
and then savior of the world. That's
Joseph's life. We see him in Moses.
Moses rejected
deliverer,
leader, and lawgiver. Oh yes, that's
Jesus pictured in the life of Moses. We
see him in David. David rejected
overcoming giants and even kings. a king
of kings and a king after God's own
heart. Yes, we see him not only
prophesied, we see him literally
prefigured. So the story, if you want to
know what the real story is, the only
story there is in town is Jesus. There
is no other story in town worth telling.
So Christmas is a threepart story in our
text today of God's unexpected and let
me add an unacceptable child.
Jesus was God's unexpected
and unacceptable child if you're not a
believer today.
So number one, God's unexpected and
unacceptable child was called a son of
fornication.
That's what the world has to believe
because they do not believe in the
virgin birth. They do not believe he was
the son of God. But if Jesus wasn't the
son of God, we should not be celebrating
Christmas and we should not be here this
morning. We should be out frolicking,
having as much fun as we can before we
die a terrible death and go into
nothingness.
He wasn't just a good guy. Listen to it
again. For unto us a child is born. Unto
us a son is given. So, not only did the
prophet predict that there was a child
coming, that it was going to be a male
child and it will be upon his shoulders
and his name is what's significant.
Isaiah 7:14, "Therefore, the Lord
himself will give you a sign. The Lord
himself will give you a sign. Behold,
the virgin shall conceive and bear a
son." Oh, there's so much specifics in
that because literally it refers to a
very young virgin in Genesis 3:15 that I
made reference to a moment ago. Moses
had said it this way. He shall bruise
your head. Again, it was going to be a
son and you shall bruise his heel.
Definitely a son was predicted in Psalm
2 and verse 12. And that flies in the
face. I know of the world today. You're
not supposed to get into that kind of
thing because we're all the same. Of
course, we aren't. Psalm 2 and verse 12.
Kiss the son lest he lest he be angry
and you perish in the way when his wrath
is kindled but a little. Blessed are all
those who put their trust in him. Make
it clear. It's a son. It's a son. It's a
son. It's a son. There is no doubt about
it. John 8 in verse 41. You do the deeds
of your father. This is that son
speaking. You do the deeds of your
father. Then they said to him, we were
not born of fornication. Making a
reference to their suspicions about his
birth. We have one father, God.
Fornication. Yeah, right. So Jesus said
he was God's son. Jesus claims that.
What does he claim for those who claim
they were children of Abraham? He says,
"No, that's not your father. The devil
is your father."
It's very specific. They said Jesus was
only a child of fornication. That's what
your world suggests today.
They don't believe he's the son of God.
He's a child of fornication and you
should pay no attention to him
whatsoever.
But oh no, born of a virgin, unlike you,
unlike me, different from us all, and
yet of the same flesh and the same
bones.
Different, but the same. The second
truth that you need to see is God's
unexpected and unacceptable child was
called a king of sinners. See, they
didn't call him the king of kings. No,
no, they saw him as a leader of sinners.
What it says in our text, though, is for
unto us a child is born. Unto us a son
is given and the government will be upon
his shoulder. Let me tell you something.
The government does not rest upon the
government of the United States of
America or any other government in the
world today. That's just an an image. We
think we have control of this world. Oh
no, we don't have control of this world.
One stands who has control. I assure you
that's where the government really lies.
But you know the world wants to think
its thing and that's why it's so
concerned about the government. And some
of you all you do is talk politics. And
let me tell you something that's almost
meaningless. We have a king.
Isaiah 7:14, "Therefore the Lord himself
will give you a sign."
Ah, the Lord himself.
Wow. You see, the Lord himself, the king
will give you a sign. In Luke 17:es 20-
21, it says, "Questioned by the
Pharisees as to when the kingdom of God
was coming. Okay, Messiah, you claim
you're the Messiah. When is the kingdom
of God coming?
Well, if he's the king, where's the
kingdom? He can't be a king unless there
is a kingdom. And he can't be the king
unless the kingdom already is. Think
about it just a second. Question by the
Pharisees as to when the kingdom of God
was coming. He answered them and said,
"The kingdom of God is not coming with
signs to be observed." Which by the way
is a message to all of us who think we
can explain exactly the very moment that
the kingdom came into existence. Maybe
you need to rethink that just a little
bit. God is not coming with the kingdom
of God is not coming with signs to be
observed. Verse 21. Nor will they say
look here it is or there. There's where
it starts. Careful.
For behold the kingdom of God is in your
midst. What is he saying? I'm the king,
guys. It's here now. I'm already here.
Make no mistake. That's the absolute
truth. May not sit with some of you who
think you got it all figured out, but
that's the absolute truth. In John 18
and verse 36, it says, Jesus answered,
"My kingdom is not of this world." That
doesn't mean it isn't over this world.
It's not of this world. It's not like
the kingdoms you think we need. It's
different from that. My kingdom is not
of this world. If my kingdom were of
this world, my servants would fight.
We'd be at war right now. There's plenty
of things to fight about. So that I
should not be delivered to the Jews. I
mean, I'd be the king here. You don't
mess with me like that. But now, my
kingdom is not from here. It's from
somewhere else.
My kingdom is not from here. In Matthew
11:1 19, it says, "The son of man came
eating and drinking." And they say,
"Look, a glutton and a wine b." Oh yeah.
They made all kinds of accusations
against Jesus. You think he was treated
like he is special? No, he's treated
like he wasn't. That's his real life. A
glutton and a wine bber, a friend of tax
collectors and sinners. Yeah, if he's a
king, he's a king of sinners. But wisdom
is justified by our children. So Jesus
said his kingdom was not of this world.
And that didn't sit right with them cuz
they wanted a carnal king.
Have you noticed that humans, even
church people, still want an earthly
kingdom?
Tone it down a little bit cuz you don't
know what you're talking about.
Just tone it down a bit. Jesus said his
kingdom was not of this world. They said
Jesus was only if king. If he's a king,
he's a king of just a bunch of sinners,
wine bippers,
drunkards, prostitutes.
Third truth,
God's unexpected and unacceptable child
was called a name of blasphemers.
He's a blasphemer.
It says in our text the prophecy of
Isaiah, for unto us a child is born.
Unto us a son is given and the
government will be upon his shoulder and
his name will be called at least by us.
Wonderful counselor. Oh, he's guided us
every step of the way. Mighty God. Oh,
he's not just a good guy.
everlasting father. How can that be?
Prince of peace. He's all that and more.
But he's all of that.
And Isaiah 7:14, he said this,
"Therefore, the Lord himself will give
you a sign. Behold, a virgin shall
conceive and bear a son, and shall call
his name
Emmanuel." Say it with me, class.
Emmanuel.
What does that mean? God with us. Amen.
God. God with us. For those of you who
don't feel comfortable calling a man
God, you're wrong. God with us.
John 10 31-33.
Then the Jews took up stones again to
stone him. Stone Jesus.
By the way, let me throw this in here
for those of you who seem to get this
wrong all the time. Seem to believe that
the Jews could not have anybody killed.
That is not true. That's a
misunderstanding of what Matthew said.
The Jews could have people killed. They
could stone them to death. They did it.
Don't you remember, Stephen? They did
it. Tried to do it with Paul. They tried
to do it with Jesus. They had other
people stoned. Right? Y'all know that's
true. What they couldn't do is crucify.
Only the Romans could crucify. They
could only kill that way. And that's the
meaning in in Matthew. Back up now. Then
the Jews took up stones again to stone
him. They were well within their rights.
The Romans wouldn't have cared two cents
worth had they thrown a rock, hit him in
the head, and killed him. Nobody would
have said anything because this is a
Jewish matter. They couldn't care less.
The Romans didn't think about the Jews
like you think they thought about. They
didn't care. Verse 32. Jesus answered
them, "Many good works I have shown you
from my father. For which of those works
do you stone me?"
Verse 33. The Jews answered him, saying,
"For a good work we do not stone you,
but for blasphemy,
and because you being a man, make
yourself God." That's it. He either is
or he ain't. That's it. If he ain't,
then he's a blasphemer. If he is, he's
the mighty God. He's the everlasting
father. He's the prince of peace. He's
the wonderful counselor. And he's much,
much more. Psalm 2 verse 7. I will
declare the decree. The Lord, that's L O
R D capitals as you know that's a tetra
grammaton. The Lord has said to me, "You
are my son. Today I have begotten you."
Oh yes, the son of the infinite one.
Mark 14 61- 64 says,
"But he kept silent and answered nothing
because they're trying to figure out a
way to get him killed. They're there
before he's there before the Sanhedrin."
Again, the high priest asked him, saying
to him, "Are you the Christ, the son of
the blessed?" It won't even say the
living God there. You do the Christ, the
son of the blessed. Partly may may not
believe there was such a thing. Verse
62, Jesus said, "I am,
and you will see the son of man sitting
at the right hand of the power and
coming with the clouds of heaven."
Now, he's talking, by the way, that guy
that he's speaking to right there is
going to see this just like you will and
I will. We're all going to see this. If
you have doubts right now, I'm going to
tell you something. When that happens,
you won't have any doubts. Okay? Won't
be any doubts then if you question it
right now. Verse 63. Then the high
priest tore his clothes and said, "What
further need do we have of witnesses?
You have heard the blasphemy.
What do you think?" And they all
condemned him to he deserves death.
That's what they thought of him. Do you
know that if you don't believe Jesus is
the son of God,
you're guilty of blasphemy?
The very thing you think he's guilty of
is what you and I are guilty of if we
don't believe. If he isn't the son of
God, he was a blasphemer.
And we're all innocent about that. But
it won't make any difference because
we're not going to be saved anyway
because there's no such thing as heaven
and there's no such thing as God and
there's no such thing as the son of God.
This stuff is not kind of important.
This is the stuff that the world is all
about. Jesus said he was God's son sent
to save you and me. Sent to save. But
they said he's not a savior.
He's only a blasphemer.
So make no mistake, there's not an easy
place to stand on this subject. If you
think you can get away with, I haven't
made up my mind, you can forget that
idea.
You don't get off on that.
They call him a son of a fornicator.
They call him a king of sinners. They
call him a name of blasphemers.
Matthew 10:es 25 and 26 it says it is
enough for a disciple that he be like
his teacher and a servant like his
master if they have called the master of
the house be elub
will they call those of his household
what do you think the why do you think
the world doesn't think you're very
bright why do you think the world mock
mocks church people. And why do you try
not to let them know too much about how
church you are? Cuz you know they're
going to mock you.
In John 16:2, it says this, "They're
going to throw you out of the meeting
places and the time will come when
anyone who kills you will think he's
doing God a favor."
You think the world loves us? The world
does not love us.
Don't be surprised that baby Jesus was
not welcomed when he showed up
because you come in talking about Jesus,
you're not really welcome to the
conversation either.
Complaints about nativity scenes have
been common throughout our political
history. You've you've probably heard
some of this. Uh South Dakota capital
overcame it. Governor Bill Jenkll, I
think is the way you say his name. He
was governor from 79 to 87. Most of
y'all weren't even born then. 95 to 2003
he was governor again. But the way he
got around it is he just made it not
religious. He said everybody can put up
a nativity scene. And so he encouraged
he left a place for atheists to put up
their nativity scene.
I just find that
so so you can be so inoffensive that you
stand for nothing.
David Barry uh who wrote notes on
Western civilization back in 1991 wrote
this statement. Listen to what he said.
To avoid offending anybody,
the school dropped religion altogether
and started singing about the weather.
As my son's school, they now hold the
winter program in February. And they
sing increasingly non-memorable songs
such as Winter Wonderland, Frosty the
Snowman, and this is a real song, Suzy
Snowflake. I had heard of that one, but
all of which is pretty funny because we
live in Miami. 
A visitor from another planet would
assume that the children belong to the
Church of the Meteorology.
There are things that matter.
A lady who served on uh many civic
committees was asked to select carols
for community Christmas tree lighting.
Uh so they sought a preacher to help her
and he sent in a list.
And then her answer, she exclaimed, "But
they're all so theological.
I know some of you don't want Jesus in
Christmas. I understand.
But there's no such thing.
There's no such thing.
There's no such thing as Christmas. If
there's no such thing as Jesus, the
whole story becomes moot."
Peter Marshall, this is not the actor,
this was a preacher, Peter Marshall,
died in 49. So I want you to know he
wrote this.
In a world that seems not only to be
changing, but even to be dissolving,
there are some tens of millions of us
who want Christmas to be the same. With
the same old greetings, merry Christmas
and no other. We long for the abiding
love among men of good will which the
season brings.
Believing in this ancient miracle of
Christmas with its softening, sweetening
influence to tug at our heartstrings
once again. We want to hold on to the
old customs and traditions because they
strengthen our family ties and bind us
to our friends. Make us one of all
mankind for whom the child was born and
bring us back again to God who gave his
only begotten son that whosoever
believeth in him should not perish but
have everlasting life. So we will not
spend Christmas norerve
Christmas. We will keep Christmas. That
is keep it as it is and all the
loveliness of its ancient tradition. May
we keep it in our hearts that we may be
kept in its hope.
I guess what I'm trying to say today, if
I had to nail it down,
we got to proclaim the gospel.
But we don't just prota proclaim the
trunk of the gospel.
We don't just proclaim the limbs of the
gospel. Before you can talk about the
trunk and the limbs of the gospel,
you must first talk about the roots
without apology. What is at the root of
everything we believe? Everything we
talk about at this season is the stuff
that matters. The virgin birth of
Christ, not born of fornication, but
born in a miraculous way unlike any
other human being has ever been born.
Not the king of a bunch of sinners,
although he is that. He is the king of
kings and the lord of lords who gave
himself on the cross for us. And more
than that, he is the everlasting father,
the prince of peace, and the mighty God.
And if we don't accept those things, woe
be unto us because we've abandoned
everything that matters about the season
or anything else we're doing. Because if
you don't see how important theology is,
I don't know what you're doing.
What are you thinking?
How do you approach your life if these
things are not important?
But if this morning you could see how
important they actually are because it
is the only way we have meaning to
ourselves. You see, I hate to let you in
on this. You have no meaning if this has
no meaning.
&gt;&gt; Your life doesn't mean anything.
You can look for meaning. You have no
meaning outside of this meaning.
&gt;&gt; We are all connected back to this. It
isn't we tell that. It tells us what we
are.
&gt;&gt; So I'm thinking if it had
it ought to be. And maybe you need to
make a change. Some need to make a full
change. repenting of their sins,
confessing Christ, being immersed today
for the remission of their sins. Even on
a cool day, we'll do it. Some need to
repent privately that they've let these
things slip from their heart and they've
forgotten what this stuff's really
about.
Repent.
Turn back. Understand what really
matters. Live your life based upon that.
And don't act like this is frivolous and
just mystical stuff that never happened.
Oh no. And not only did it happen,
everybody that actually knows anything
about history knows it's happened.
And you've been if you don't believe
that, you've been listening to the wrong
people.
But if you're willing to change, God's
always available. If you need to come,
come while we stand, while we
