The shepherd was out tending his flock
in a remote pasture kind of in the
middle of nowhere
when suddenly this shiny, fancy,
expensive car comes rolling out into the
field where he is, oddly enough. And out
of that car jumps this young man who is
wearing a suit that I couldn't purchase
on my best day. It's like an Armani
suit. It's expensive. He's wearing a
watch that looks like equally expensive
shoes, expensive Italian shoes. Oh, he's
he's got it all. And the car is like
unbelievable.
And he gets out of the car. As he gets
out of the car, he yells at the shepherd
and he says, "Hey, if I can tell you how
many sheep you have out here in this
pasture right now, would you get me one
of them?"
Shepherd looks at him, kind of sizes him
up, and he says, "Yeah, okay." So he
jumps back in his car, gets his laptop
out, gets his phone out, he links to the
internet, he links to some kind of heat
thing where he consents the number of
people out there, has all these
computers working for him, makes a few
emails, and then gets out of his car
again and stands up and he says,
"Sheepard, you have exactly 1,478
sheep in this field right now."
shepherd impressed. He said, "Uh,
that's pretty good. That's right. You
can have one of my sheep out of my
flock." So, the man goes over, grabs one
of the animals, stuffs it into his car,
and then before he's about to leave, the
shepherd said, "Hey, hey, hang on a
second here. If I can tell you exactly
what your business is, who you work for,
will you give me back my animal?"
He said, "Yeah, you're on."
So without flinching, he says, "You're
you work for a department of the
government. It's an efficiency
department. It's Doge
budget consulting, right? For the
government." He says, "You're right. How
did you possibly guess that?" He says,
"Well, it wasn't really a guess. You
drive into my field uninvited. You want
me to pay for a piece of information I
already know, and you answer my
questions that I've never even asked,
and you know nothing about my business.
And by the way, give me back my dog.
Shephering
is the path of disciplehip.
And the pathway to the eldership is
shephering.
Many of us want to be shepherded. We
want somebody to shepherd us.
And we may resist it, but we really do
want it. We want shepherds.
And God not just shepherded our soul
himself. He sent Jesus to shepherd us.
And he calls us to be shepherds of
souls.
There was a little boy who was
desperately ill.
The parents recognized that he was not
going to survive this illness.
And he didn't.
But before he passed, they called the
local preacher to come and see if he
could at least comfort him. So the
preacher came. The boy was in a room
upstairs.
And the preacher went up there, closed
the door, and when he got there, he
found that the boy seemed to be
unconscious, not responsive,
close to death.
He spent some time with the boy, an hour
or two, and
but he left
late that night having prayed with the
boy and family. And
he told him he's going to be back early
in the morning. Well, early in the
morning, he came again. But by that
point, the little boy had passed away.
And so he tried to comfort them. They
were in their grief.
But then just before he was about to
leave, they said, 'You know, preacher,
uh, I got a question for you. We We were
really kind of mystified by something
the little boy was doing just before he
passed away.
Well, what was that? Well, he was doing
this.
He's holding his hand like this, and he
just wouldn't let go. I mean, he wasn't
alert, but he was holding tightly to his
little finger.
Do you have any idea what that was
about?
He said, 'Well, I didn't know if he's
listening to me,
but I did this with him. I took his hand
and I I put my hand over his thumb and I
said, "This stands for the because there
is only one great God, and you need to
be comforted by him."
This finger stands for Lord. He is the
Lord God. He is over all. He can do all.
He's created all.
This stands for is because he does
exist. He lives and he ever lives. No
matter when you are, he is.
This finger stands for mine. He's
personal. He belongs to you. He is
yours.
And the last one is shepherd. He is the
one who sent his son to die for you. He
is your shepherd. He has died on a cross
for you. He lives for you, but he ever
lives to make intercessions for you. You
have nothing to worry about. The Lord is
my shepherd. Hold on to that. And he
passed away.
holding on to that
shephering
is a rewarding role but as you can see
it is a very serious responsibility.
I want us to just look at three little
ideas. The first one's already up there.
The pathway to the eldership requires
that one loves more than others. You
want to be a shepherd. You want to be an
elder here.
You can't love like everybody else does.
I need you to hear that. That's why I'm
pausing.
You think it's the same. It is not.
John 21:15 says, "So when they had eaten
breakfast, Jesus said to Simon Peter,
who became an elder, Simon, son of
Jonah, do you love me more than these?"
Referring to the other people. He said
to him, "Yes, Lord, you know that I love
you." He said to him, "Feed my lambs. If
you really love
me, love the Lord more than other people
love the Lord, you're ready to be a
shepherd. Yeah, that's right. That's
what that requires.
There's two requirements on the pathway
to being a true shepherd in this regard.
You have to be more lowly than others
are. If you pay attention to Peter, you
find out that Peter was not that lowly.
Peter was not that lowly at first. And
I'll show you how you know that. Matthew
26:33 says, Peter answered, "Even if all
are made to stumble because you, I will
never be made to stumble. I am a
dedicated disciple."
John 13:37-38
Peter said,"Lord, why can I not follow
you now? I will lay down my life for
your sake." And Jesus said to him, "Will
you?"
Now, he became that, but he had to
become that by learning to become lowly
and not thinking he was the best
disciple in the room.
Hey, the one that thinks that right now,
remember that there's some people
sitting in this room right now who think
they're better than other people in this
room. If you're the one I'm talking to
right now, you need to wake up.
Be lowly. Now, if you're sitting there
thinking, "I'm the worst person in the
room." You're right where you should be.
Right where you should be.
But more we need to be more loving than
others are.
John 21:15 do you love me more than
these? He says in Matthew 5:es 46 and 47
sermon on the mount he made this clear.
This is a requirement of disciplehip. It
says for if you love that is agapeo.
I'll come to what that means in a
minute. That's the word he uses. Those
who love that is agapeo. you, what
reward have you? Do not even the tax
collectors do the same? And if you greet
your brethren only, what do you more
than others? Listen to me very clearly.
The pathway of disciplehip is not just
as good as everybody else. You're just a
good American. No, sir. We are required
to be better.
not asked to. You are required to be
better than the average person in
America.
You are required to be better than the
average person who's halfway religious
and goes to church occasionally.
You are required. What do you more than
others? Do you love more than others? Do
you do more than others? So that's the
pathway. And why I say that is because
of all people, somebody that wants to be
an elder or shepherd of a church who
doesn't think that way has no business
being an elder.
The pathway to being a shepherd requires
one loves more than the others do.
Number two,
the pathway to the eldership requires
that one loves more than likes.
Let me read it again, and this time I'll
include the Greek that's in there so
you'll understand why I use that. In
John 21:15, it says, "So when they had
eaten breakfast, Jesus said to Simon
Peter," Simon, son of Jonah, do you love
agapeo
me more than these? He said to him,
"Yes, Lord, you know that I love fileo."
Is the word he uses you. He said to him,
"Feed my lambs." Verse 16. He said to
him again a second time, "Simon, son of
Jonah, do you love agapeo me?" And he
said to him, "Yes, Lord, you know that I
love fileo
you." He said to him, "Tend my sheep."
He said to him the third time,"Simon,
son of Jonah, do you love fileo?" Oh,
do you love fileo me?
Peter was grieved. It wasn't just
because it was the third time. It's
because he changed the word. Peter was
grieved because he said to him the third
time, "Do you love file me?" Get it?
Because he saw Jesus change his word.
Not just it was three times he asked,
but Jesus even questioned whether or not
he fileoed him. And he said to him,
"Lord, you know all things. You know
that I love fileo you."
Do you notice Peter never said, "I agape
you."
Not one time in this text. Jesus said to
him, "Feed my sheep."
Two loves are required on the pathway to
being a true shepherd.
You have to receive fileo love. Now
fileo love, let me define it for you so
you kind of understand it. It's a love
based on mutual affection, friendship,
uh like that between a family members or
close friends. It's mutually shared
affection. It's a sense of
companionship, camaraderie. It's based
on shared interests and experiences. So
you got a fishing buddy, you fileo him.
It is human friendship, family, sibling
love is similar. Love of classmates,
colleagues, uh human relationships in
general. It is conditional. Uh you quit
being nice to me, I may not fileo you
anymore. It's based on shared traits,
mutual appreciation, reciprocal give and
take. You do your part, I do my part. A
lot of people are married in file love,
mutual affection and friendship.
But if you're going to be a shepherd,
you must accept fileo love from the
brethren because that was all Peter was
giving to the shepherd of his soul.
Fileola love at this point. Titus 3:15,
greet those who love fileo us in the
faith. Paul experienced it. What I'm
trying to suggest to you is most of the
howdies at church are fileo.
Most of the handshakes at church are
fileo.
It is not agape love. I'm sorry. I'm
just trying to be honest. Okay? I need
you to understand if you're going to be
a shepherd, don't expect more than fileo
from your brethren.
But you got to give agapeo.
That's love. That's a selfless,
sacrificial, unconditional,
often associated with God because only
God seems to be able to love at fileo at
times. It seems the human race. How he
does it, I don't know. It's because he
has agapeo in his heart. It is selfless.
It is giving. It is sacrificial. It
prioritizes the well-being of others at
the expense of his own expense. You
experience that probably with your
children. You agape owe your children.
You would die for your children. You
would give them everything you've got.
Now you're beginning to understand. You
might feel it for your parents. If you
had really good parents, it is God's
divine love for humanity, though. It
doesn't require anything out of them. He
just loves that way. It's a loving
parent. It is unconditional. It persists
regardless of the actions of the others.
He still feels that way toward you. He
still tries to do the unconditional good
thing for you. He prioritizes your needs
above his own even to the point of he
dies on the cross for you when you were
without knowledge, without strength,
without even concern about these events.
He was doing that.
He
as a shepherd. Are you listening?
Shepherds, potential shepherds.
He must give agape love to all the
brethren. Where do I get that? First
Peter 21:17. Love agapeo the
brotherhood.
You should as well. Not because the
brotherhood is exactly what you need.
Not because this church is exactly what
you need. It will never be all that you
could imagine it would be because it's
got you in it.
And it's got me in it, okay? And it's
got us in it. And we're full of
failings. But here's what we're called
to do. A love like that anyway. Give
them what they need. Not what you want
them to do, but what they are going to
do. You're going to love them anyway.
Going to love them anyway.
So here it is. The pathway to being a
shepherd requires one loves more than
likes.
So they will like you,
but you must love them.
Number three,
the pathway to the eldership requires
that one does
more than the sheep.
Let's read it. So when they had eaten
breakfast, Jesus said to Simon Peter,
"Simon, son of Jonah, do you love me
more than these?" He said to him, "Yes,
Lord, you know that I love you." He said
to him, "Feed my lambs." That's the
little ones.
He said to him again a second time,
"Simon, son of Jonah, do you love me?"
He said to him, "Yes, Lord, you know
that I love you." He said to him, "Tend
my sheep." That's the grown ones. He
said to him the third time, "Simon, son
of Jonah, do you love me?" Peter was
grieved because he said to him the third
time, "Do you love me?" And he said to
him, "Lord, you know all things. You
know that I love you." Jesus said to
him, "Feed
my sheep.
Feed the lambs.
Tend my sheep. Feed my sheep." Three
requirements. If you're going to be a
shepherd, those are the three
requirements.
He must feed Jesus's lambs. Isaiah 40
and:1 like a shepherd he will gather the
lambs with his arm and carry them in his
bosom and gently lead those who are with
young. You can't get so old you forget
what it's like to be a grandpa.
You can't get so old that you forget
what it's like to look into a smiling
child's face.
And if you get that old, you don't need
to be an elder.
Because an elder must care for the
little lambs as much as he cares for the
big old people that put money in the
collection plate. The little lambs put
nothing in. They just drained.
In 2 Samuel 12 and verse three says,
"Poor man had a poor man had a little
you lamb which he nourished. He kept
alive." That's our duty. You keep those
children spiritually alive. If you want
to be an elder here, you want to be a
shepherd, you need to
uh feed the lambs. Make sure they get a
good Bible class.
Make sure they're taken care of.
But then he must tend Jesus' sheep. Now
tend means shepherd. That's another way
of saying shepherd, taken care of. That
includes food and drink. It means to
protect them from the predators that are
out there. That is predators walk in
here. They're two-leggedlegged predators
now and you have to be protected from
them. Some of them are predators because
they're sexual predators and we keep a
watch on that and you better know that
the elders have to keep a watch on that.
And don't you think that they'll not
ever come to church?
I assure you they come to church. Ain't
that right, Dwight? They come to church
and we've had them. Okay. So, that's
that's an issue that has to be watched
constantly. But more than that, there
are people who come in here with wild,
crazy theological ideas all the time.
You may be one of them. I don't know.
But they have wild, crazy ideas. And
they will try to push them down our
throat and make us change, be like they
want this church to be. And this church
is going to stay kind of where it is
whether you like it or not. And if
you're one of those who are trying to
change it into something else, you
should probably hit the road,
okay? Cuz the doctrine's not changing.
Amen. Walls.
&gt;&gt; Glad those walls can speak up.
Acts 20:28 through30 says you got to
shepherd the church and then there's
troubles without. Savage wolves will
come in among you, not sparing a flock.
So that'll happen. But then there's from
within. So when I said that there's
problems that sometime come out, those
predators come in. I want you to
understand they're not the only
predators we have to deal with. Verse 30
says within he says also from among your
own selves men will arise speaking
perverse things to draw away the
disciples after themselves. There are
lions and bears among us
that want to be bigger and more powerful
than they ought to be.
And there are people who will always sit
in our midst that will want to take over
the church and lead in a direction that
the rest of us don't want to go. And you
don't think that's true? You don't know
what it's like to be an elder.
So if you're going to be an elder, you
have to be able to set those people down
because there's always a sheep that will
lead the rest of them astray.
That always is true. That's not
sometimes true. Heard of these
shepherds. They were sitting one time in
this little village and they gotten
through. They got all their sheep
together up in this field. There's about
1,500 sheep in that field. And they were
watching them and they were having a cup
of tea down there in the little village.
And all of a sudden, one sheep, one
crazy sheep went over to where the bluff
was, close to where their field was, and
never happened before, jumped off,
killed it immediately.
But you know, sheep are kind of like
lemmings. Y'all remember that game
everybody used to play? Well, where's
that sheep going? And one followed it.
Kadunk.
And they're sitting there in horror
because it's so far to get to them.
There's no way they're going to be able
to stop them. And then another one.
Kadunk. And another one. Kadunk.
All 1500 sheep went over the edge.
One sheep was crazy and led the rest of
them away. Don't you think it can't
happen? Now, here's the good news. Only
450 died because at the bottom of the
hill, they kind of got fluffy after a
while.
He must feed Jesus sheep to feed. Isaiah
48:1 says, "He will feed his flock like
a shepherd." That's what a shepherd
does. Make sure you get fed, you get
taught, you get taken care of. Not just
your physical things, but your spiritual
things more than anything else. That's
their job. Ezekiel 34:es 23-23 is a
great text, but I'll just read verse 23.
He says, "Son of man, prophesy against
the shepherds of Israel. Prophesy and
say to them, thus says the Lord God to
the shepherds, woe to the shepherds of
Israel who feed themselves. Should not
the shepherds feed the flocks?" It's not
enough for shepherds to just sit in a
Bible class. Shepherds must teach Bible
classes. The pathway to being a shepherd
requires one does more than the other's
sheep.
It's a requirement. Not a maybe. It's a
requirement.
So this is the lesson.
You going to be a shepherd, which every
one of us should be. By the way, you
need to understand that you got to be
one that loves more than others.
loves more than just likes. You're going
to get liked. You need to love.
And one that does more than the rest of
the sheep. That's what we're calling you
to. I don't care who you are. I don't
care what disciple you are. You think
it's all requirement of the elders. Oh,
no, no, no. This is what you're required
to do. This is the calling of a disciple
of Christ. This is what we're all to be
about. We ought to recognize this. This
is on my shoulders. This is on your
shoulders. This is what we are all
called to be about. Every last one of
us.
In his book, Building a Church of Small
groups, Bill Dunn uh carries a little
story. It's kind of interesting. He's
talking about um Bill Dunn was a youth
minister at the time while he was
attending Bible school. That happened to
me. I was a youth minister when I was in
school. Like it killed me.
visiting a farm where two of his young
people that were in his youth group uh
were raised. That's where his mom or
their mom and dad was. So while he is
visiting with them, the father said,
"Hey, let's go outside with me." So the
father took the youth minister outside.
He said, "Uh, can I teach you
something?" He said, "Yeah." I said,
"Uh,
would you like to help me call in the
sheep?" So he's a sheep razer shepherd
himself. So he only help he call him in.
He said he's a young man. He said sure.
How hard could it be?
Happy to help. He says well I mean I
know you've been to preacher school.
Said uh so you should know some of this.
He said I've got about 25 right out here
in this field. Just call them over. And
the young fell says okay. Uh call them
in. Well, what do you say when you call
them in? He says, "Well, I just say,
hey, sheep, come over here."
He said, "Okay." So, the young man said,
"Hey, sheep, come over here." The sheep
were all pointed the other way and they
didn't even lift their head. Nothing
happened. He said, 'Well, son, you went
to preacher school. Didn't they teach
you how to lift your voice where you
could speak a little louder because you
might be outside sometime or some people
like yelling? Okay. Yeah, of course.
That's what we were taught. We were
taught how to do that. That's the reason
some of you hate that because it's been
done so much. So, yeah.
He said, "Okay, well, use your voice.
Hey, she come over here."
Didn't even raise an ear. nothing
changed.
And he said, "Son, they not teach you
anything in that preacher training
school.
You should know the sheep don't hear
anybody's voice but their true shepherd.
Let me show you." And in a quiet voice,
he said, "Hey, sheep,
come over here." And they all lifted
their head and one by one turned around
and came to where he was at.
If a man's a true shepherd,
everybody here listens.
They'll listen to you because they know.
And he said to him and said, "Now you
don't you forget that because my two
little girls are in your flock. They're
listening to you. Be careful what you
say. So shephering is a very rewarding
role, but it's got some serious
responsibilities now, doesn't it? And so
you are called to be a shepherd of
everybody around you. Don't forget, it's
a rewarding role to see your children,
your family, and others hear you and
follow the Lord. But it's a serious
responsibility now, is it? And if you
desire to be a shepherd like one of
these guys that are considering it right
now, then you need to remember you are
the one that's required definitely to
love more than others and to love more
than just like people and to do more
than the rest of the sheep do. So the
chief shepherd is calling us all. But
will we hear him? Are we the sheep in
the field that's got our head pointed
the other way and we won't listen and we
act like, well, it's his fault. Well, it
might be, but it might be mine. Maybe
I'm not listening. The Lord's calling
us. He's calling every one of us to his
side to be disciples that shepherd
others. He's calling us. If you've never
listened, maybe you should listen to
this. Hey sheep,
you need to re believe in Jesus.
Hey sheep, you need to repent of your
sins.
Hey sheep, you need to confess that you
believe in Jesus.
Hey sheep, you need to let us baptize
you in the name of the father and the
son, the holy spirit. Hey sheep, you
need to let me be your shepherd. If
you're willing to let him be your
shepherd, this invitation is you. You
come forward. We'll help you every way
we can while we stand and while we sing.
