So, I was
uh I was looking at what kind of lesson
could I I bring tonight for our
graduates and I was studying Philippians
3 over and over and over and over and
I'm like this is amazing. This is really
good stuff. But the more I looked into
it, I'm like, "Wow, you know, there's
some good stuff in Philippians 2 as
well." And and then I I read some more
like, you know, this this is this could
apply to the the graduates as well.
Philippians 1 and oh, and now I'm in
Philippians 4. I'm like, "Well, I could
preach on that." And and the next thing
I know, I'm like, you know what? Paul
says it way better than I do.
Amen. So, let's read Philippians
tonight.
Um, I've listed some uh let's put that
up there. So, I'm going to go to
Philippians chapter 1. And, and if the
you know, the youth know me, the one
thing I love doing is just reading and
just reading what God's word says. And
then we discuss and we debate. And it's
been really exciting. It's It's a lot of
fun for me, especially when EMTT has
something to say. It's an adventure for
me. I never know where that's going to
go. Where did EMTT go? There he is.
Thanks for singing tonight, bud. That
was really cool. Um, but I I've really
enjoyed the interaction with with these
young young
minds, but they know I love reading, and
so I thought it appropriate that we just
read Philippians. Um, so I've listed
those things up there. And it's
interesting when you go through
Philippians chapter 1 that Paul is is is
kind of highlighting these things. And
so to the graduates here, I say to you,
look at these these these words that
I've put up there. Look at what Paul is
saying. I cannot say this any better.
Your life and everything kind of flows
into this or or this should flow into
your life, should I say. this
thanksgiving, this prayer, this joy, um
partaking in grace, defending and
confirming the gospel. Paul's going to
explain how he could overcome adversity,
how we can be imprisoned and be
joyful. And I thought that's such a
wonderful skill for you guys to have. Um
he's going to talk about thanksgiving.
He's going to talk about joy, rejoicing.
Everything I believe you need in this
life, Paul covers in Philippians here.
And so let's let's let's hear what he
has to say. Go to Philippians chapter 1
and uh let's have a prayer and we'll get
into
it. Our dearest father God, Lord, we uh
humbly come before you. Lord, you are
the great I am. Uh we just praise your
name, Father.
Father, tonight as we consider these
graduates and consider what their future
holds and uh where they're heading,
Father, uh we just pray that you
will will uh help us to help them and
also help them. Father, uh we know it's
it's it's exciting times for them. It's
also a dangerous time for them and and
so Father, protect them, keep them,
rejoice with them, weep with them, and
just allow us to do the same, please,
Father. Father, I want to thank you so
much for Paul who's written this
wonderful letter, and he says it so
well, Father. And and it's your word. It
comes from you. And so, uh, we just pray
that we can open our hearts and minds to
hear you tonight, Father. Thank you so
much. In Jesus name we pray.
Amen. So, follow with me. uh Philippians
1:1, Paul and Timothy, servants of
Christ Jesus, to all the saints in
Christ Jesus who are at Philippi with
the uh overseers and deacons. Grace to
you and peace from our God, our father
and the Lord Jesus Christ.
I thank my God in all my remembrance of
you always in every prayer of mine for
you all making my prayer with joy
because of your partnership in the
gospel from the first day until now and
I am sure of this that he who began a
good work in you will bring it to
completion at the day of Jesus Christ.
It is right for me to feel this way
about you all because I hold you in my
heart. For you are all partakers with me
of grace, both in my imprisonment and in
the defense of the confirmation of the
gospel. For God is my witness how I
yearn for you all with the affection of
Christ Jesus. And it is my prayer that
your love may abound more and more with
knowledge and all discernment so that
you may approve what is excellent and so
be pure and blameless for the day of
Christ filled with the fruit of
righteousness that comes through Jesus
Christ to the glory and praise of God. I
want you to know, brothers, that what
has happened to me has really served to
advance the gospel so that it has become
known throughout the whole imperial God
and to all the rest that my imprisonment
is for Christ. And most of the brothers
having become confident in the Lord by
my imprisonment are much more bold to
speak the word without fear.
Some indeed preach Christ from envy and
rivalry, but others from goodwill. The
latter do it out of love, knowing that I
am put here for the defense of the
gospel. The former proclaimed Christ out
of selfish
ambition, not sincerely, but thinking to
afflict me in my imprisonment. What
then?
only that in every way, whether in
pretense or in truth, Christ is
proclaimed. And in that I
rejoice. Yes, I will rejoice. For I know
that through your prayers and the help
of the spirit of Jesus Christ, this will
turn out for my deliverance. It is as it
is my eager expectation and hope that I
will not be at all
ashamed, but that with the full courage
now as always, Christ will be honored in
my body, whether by life or by death.
For to
me to live is Christ, and to die is
gain. If I am to live in the flesh, that
means fruitful labor for
me. Yet which I shall choose, I cannot
tell. I am hardpressed between the two.
My desire is to depart and be with
Christ, for that is far
better. But to remain in the flesh is
more necessary on your account.
Convinced of this, I know that I will
remain and continue with you all for
your progress and joy in the faith so
that in me you may have ample cause to
glory in Christ Jesus because of the
coming uh because of my coming to you
again.
Only let your manner of life be worthy
uh be worthy of the gospel of Christ, so
that whether I come and see you or am
absent, I may hear of uh of you, that
you are standing firm in one spirit with
one mind, striving side by side for the
faith of the gospel, and not frightened
in anything by your opponents. This is a
clear sign to them of their destruction,
but of your salvation and that of and
that from God. For it has been granted
to you that for the sake of Christ, you
should not only believe in him, but also
suffer for his sake, engaged in the same
conflict that you saw, I had and now
hear that I still
have. In chapter 2, he covers same mind,
same love, this humility, uh count
others more significant. He he talks
about Jesus emptying himself uh becoming
a servant, humbling yourself, uh being
obedient, working out your own
salvation. Guys, uh to our graduates, I
know you've you kind of sometimes come
to church because your parents have made
you to do that. I get
it. But at some point, you have to work
out your own salvation. You have to
figure this out for yourself. Your
parents can't get you into heaven. I
can't get you into heaven. It's up to
you to work out your own salvation with
God. And Paul's going to address this.
Yeah. He goes through no grumbling and
blameless. You can read the rest, but
let's read and and notice what he's
calling us to do, chapter 2.
So if there is any encouragement in
Christ, any comfort from love, any
participation in the spirit, any
affection and sympathy, complete my joy
by being of the same mind, having the
same
love, being in full accord and of one
mind. Do nothing from selfish ambition
or conceit, but in humility, count
others more significant than
yourselves. Interesting, eh? Count
others more significant than yourselves.
Let each of you look not only to his own
interests, but also to the interests of
others. Have this mind among yourselves,
which is yours in Christ Jesus, who
though he was in the form of God, did
not count equality with God a thing to
be grasped, but emptied
himself by taking the form of a servant.
Being born in the likeness of men and
being found in human form, he humbled
himself by becoming obedient to the
point of
death, even death on a cross. And
therefore God has highly exalted him and
bestowed on him the name that is above
every name. So that at the name of
Jesus, every knee should bow in heaven
and on earth and under the earth and
every tongue confess that Jesus Christ
is Lord to the glory of God the Father.
Therefore, my
beloved, as you have always obeyed, so
now, not only as in my presence, but
much more in my absence. Work out your
own salvation with fear and
trembling. For it is God who works in
you both to will and to work for his
good
pleasure. Do all things without
grumbling. I know I could learn from
that one. Yep.
Do all things without grumbling or
disputing that you may be blameless and
innocent children of God without blemish
in the midst of a crooked and twisted
generation among whom you shine as
lights in the world. I love that. Shine
as lights, guys, holding fast to the
word of life so that in the day of
Christ I may be proud that I did not run
in vain or labor in vain. Even if I am
to be poured out as a drink offering
upon the sacrificial offering of your
faith, I am glad and rejoice with you
all.
Likewise, you also should be glad and
rejoice with
me. I hope in the Lord Jesus to send
Timothy to to to you soon so that I too
may be cheered by news of you. For I
have no one like him who will be
genuinely concerned for the for your
welfare. For they all seek their own
interests, not those of Jesus Christ. Uh
but you know Timothy's proven worth how
is a son with the father he has served
with me in the gospel. I hope therefore
to send him just as soon as I see how it
will go with me. And I trust in the Lord
that shortly I myself will also come.
I have thought it necessary to send to
you Ephroditis, my brother and fellow
worker and fellow soldier and your
messenger and minister to my need. For
he has been longing for you all and has
been distressed because you uh because
you heard that he was ill. Indeed, he
was ill near to death. But God had mercy
on him and not only on him but als on on
me also. This I should have sorrow upon
sorrow. I am the more eager to send him.
Therefore, that you may rejoice at
seeing him again and that I may be less
anxious. So receive him in the Lord with
all joy and honor such men. For he
nearly died for the work of Christ,
risking his life to complete what was
lacking in your service to
me. Chapter 3.
Finally, my brothers, rejoice in the
Lord. To write the same things to you is
no trouble to me and is safe for you.
Look out for the dogs. Look out for the
evildoers. Look out for those who
mutilate the
flesh. For we are the circumcision who
worship by the spirit of God and glory
in Christ Jesus and put no confidence in
the flesh. Though I myself have reason
for confidence in the flesh. Also, if
anyone else thinks he has a reason for
confidence in the flesh, I have more.
Circumcised on the eighth day of the
people of Israel, of the tribe of
Benjamin, a Hebrew of Hebrews as to the
law, a Pharisee as to zeal, a persecutor
of the
church as uh as to righteousness under
the law,
blameless. But whatever gain I had, I
counted as loss for the sake of Christ.
Indeed, I count everything as loss
because of the surpassing worth of
knowing Christ Jesus, my Lord. I love
that that he's
considering nothing compares to knowing
Christ.
Nothing. He considers that loss. Indeed,
I count uh sorry, back to verse 8.
Indeed, I count everything as loss
because of the surpassing worth of
knowing Christ Jesus, my Lord. For his
sake, I have suffered the loss of all
things and count them as rubbish. I love
that word because it's not trash, it's
rubbish. It's it's the Aussie word,
right? counted as
rubbish in order that I may gain Christ
and be found in him, not having a
righteousness of my own that comes from
the law, but that which comes through
faith in Christ, the righteousness from
God that depends on faith, that I may
know him and the power of his
resurrection, and may share his
sufferings, becoming like him in death,
that by any means possible I may attain
the resurrection from the
dead. Getting to know him, the power of
his resurrection, sharing in his
sufferings, conform to his death. That's
what Paul's calling us to
do. And we get to the grudges. We we get
distracted in life. But I urge you to
hold on to this, to cling to this, to
conform yourselves to like to Jesus. We
have nothing else. That's what Paul's
call calling us to do. There is nothing
else. I love Peter when Peter says, you
know, where else am I going to go? When
Jesus says, are you going to leave me?
Where else am I going to
go? You have
everything. So conform to him. He is the
way, the truth, and the life. Right?
Verse 12. Not that I have already
obtained this or am already perfect, but
I press on.
Press on guys to make it my own because
Christ Jesus has made me his own.
Brothers, I do not consider that I have
made it my own. But one thing I do,
forgetting what lies behind and
straining forward to what lies ahead, I
press on toward the goal for the prize
of the upward call of God in Christ
Jesus. Let those of us who are mature
think this
way. And if in anything you think
otherwise, God will reveal that also to
you. Only let us hold true to what we
have attained according to the example
you have in us. For many of whom I have
often told you and now tell you, even
with tears, walk as enemies of the cross
of
Christ. Their end is destruction. Their
god is their belly, and they glory in
their shame with mindset on earthly
things. But our
citizenship is in
heaven, and from it we await a savior,
the Lord Jesus Christ, who will
transform our lowly body to be like his
glorious body by the power that enables
him even to subject all things to
himself. This one really emanates with
me because I've been a citizen I think
everywhere but I never feel at home.
I'll be honest. I love America but I
don't feel at home. I love South Africa.
I just didn't I don't know. I don't feel
at home. I love Australia. I just didn't
feel at home. And I can't wait till we
get to heaven one day cuz my citizenship
is there. That's the real citizenship,
right? And I I know I'll feel at home.
And I I really when Paul says this, I'm
like, "Oh, yes. I'm longing for that.
That's my goal. Press on towards the
goal. Long for that that citizenship
that where you truly feel at home. And
we have our
savior in chapter
4 verse one. Paul says, "Therefore, my
brothers whom I love and long for, my
joy and crown, stand
firm. Thus in the Lord, my beloved,
stand firm. You're going to be
persecuted. You're going to be mocked
and laughed at for being a
Christian. Stand
firm. Your booze mean nothing to me.
I've seen what you guys cheer
for. In verse two, I
entreat and I entreat uh Cinti to agree
in the Lord. Yes, I ask you also. true
companion, help these women who have
labored side by side with me in the
gospel together with Clement and the
rest of my fellow workers whose names
are in the book of life. Rejoice in the
Lord always. Again, I will say,
rejoice. Let your reasonleness be known
to
everyone. So, we're called to rejoice.
Rejoice. Rejoice. Why do we rejoice?
because we have everything. Be excited.
Have that confidence, right? And uh let
your reasonleness be known to everyone.
We're called to be reasonable. The Lord
is at hand. Do not be anxious about um
anything, but in everything by prayer
and supplication with thanksgiving, let
your requests be made known to God. And
the peace of God which surpasses all
understanding will guard your hearts
with your minds in Christ Jesus.
Finally, brothers, whatever is
true, whatever is
honorable, whatever is just, whatever is
pure, whatever is lovely, whatever is
commendable, if there is any excellence,
if there is anything worthy of praise,
think about these things.
what you have learned and received and
heard and seen in me.
Practice these things and the God of
peace will be with
you. Um, this one
really, it's hard to do this, right?
Focus on whatever is true, honorable,
just, pure, lovely,
commendable. Um, it's so easy once we
spoke about being distracted this
morning. It's so easy to be distracted
with the world and and to cast my mind
on on
on stresses and worries and even evil
things sometimes. Let's just be honest.
Our brains go to some some bad
places. And we're called to do this.
True, honorable, and it takes time to
train your brain, right? I I read a
neurosurgeon uh
neuroscientist who uh under MRIs and
brain scans they've actually proven that
the
brain re uh maps
itself by changing your thinking. So
they found people who change their
thinking to goodness and wholesomeness
and and and all these attributes. They
actually found physical
brain changes and mappings and it's
amazing, right? and and she wrote this
whole book and it's a really interesting
book. But I kind of giggled cuz I was
like, well, renew your mind. Paul's kind
of spoken about this for a long time,
right? The Bible's there already. But
they've proven
it. You know, you change, you actually
can be your own neurosurgeon is what she
was saying, just by changing your
thinking. And I found that so
fascinating that if we follow
this, something physical actually
manifests. Good. All
right. So Paul says and that brings
peace uh which will be with you. And in
verse 10, Paul says, "I rejoice in the
Lord greatly that now at length you have
revi uh revived your concern for me. You
were indeed concerned for me, but you
had no opportunity. Not that I am
speaking of being a need, for I have
learned in whatever situation I am to be
content."
Wow. Now, this is a man who's in
prison. All
right. Who's been shipwrecked, who's had
all sorts of stuff happen to this guy. I
have learned that in any
situation to be
content. I know how to be brought low
and I know how to abound in any and
every circumstance. I have learned the
secret of facing plenty and hunger,
abundance and need. I can do all things
through him who strengthens me. We hear
that a lot. I know you guys hear that
one verse a lot. But do you see in
context now? Paul's like, I've
experienced all over, but I've learned
that through him I can be content. He
gives me strength. He lifts me up,
right?
I can do all things through him who
gives who who strengthens me. Yet it was
kind of you to share in my trouble. And
you Philippians yourselves know that in
the beginning of the gospel when I left
Macedonia, no church entered into
partnership with me in giving and
receiving except you only. Even in
Thessalonica, you sent me help for my
needs once and again. Not that I seek
the gift, but I seek the fruit that
increases to your credit.
Um, I have received full payment and
more. I am well supplied, having
received from Ephroditis, the
Epaphroditis, sorry, the gifts you sent,
a fragrant offering, a sacrifice
acceptable and pleasing to God. And my
God will supply every need of yours
according to his riches in glory in
Christ Jesus. To our God and Father be
glory forever and ever.
Amen. Greet every saint in Christ Jesus.
The brothers who are with me greet you.
All the saints greet you, especially
those of Caesar's household. The grace
of the Lord Jesus Christ be with your
spirit.
I I love I I loved reading that. I love
studying that. Um like I say, I had a
whole sermon on just chapter 3 tonight.
And the more I got into it, the more I'm
looking at it, Paul just says it so much
better than I could ever say it. And
that's that's from God's word, right?
And if you see, I know it's a long list.
I know there's a lot we've just covered
there,
but that's what we're called to be like.
Thanksgiving and prayer and joy and
partaking in grace and hope and and
being convinced and worthy and standing
firm. And this is such a happy book.
There's so much joy here. And I I I I
plead with you graduates when you're
struggling. Uh where are the graduates?
I got Maddie over there, Isabella over
there. I don't see the other guys. H
there's Claire over there. I plead with
you
guys, stay focused on the word. When
you're struggling, you find you find
letters like this that are
uplifting that you can that you can um
relate to with Paul. When Paul is
struggling and you're struggling, you
know, you kind of read it and be like,
"Well, I mean, the guy's in prison.
Yeah, I got a I got a D on my math
test." Okay? You know what I mean? We
kind of put it in into perspective. The
Bible does that for us and it's
comforting, right? So, I I I urge you, I
encourage you, keep reading your Bible.
Um, I want to pray for you guys. Let's
let's let's uh we'll pray and then we'll
we'll have the song and then after that,
we're going to Where's Craftton? Um,
we're going to have Oh, he's up there.
We're going to have uh videos of the the
graduates and then we're having a feast
outside apparently of cake. So, that'll
be cool. Um, let's
pray. Our dearest God, our heavenly
father, Lord, uh just thank you so much
for the letter to Philippians. Father,
uh we thank you so much for using Paul.
You you're so wise, Father. None of us
would have seen Paul as as such an
amazing writer for us, Father. We we see
him as an enemy in the beginning and and
you in your wisdom use Paul in such a
unique way, Father. And and you let him
through suffering and joy and and all
sorts of stuff, Father. And we we
benefit from what he went through and
what you put him through, Father. So,
thank you so much for your wisdom in
doing that. Father, I want to pray for
our graduates. I pray for a special
blessing on them. They are going to face
hardships. They're going to have happy
times and joy and and tears and all
sorts of things, Father. But I pray that
you instill in their hearts a desire, a
want, a a love for your word and a love
for you, Father. And and and that they
know that they still and always will
have a home here at Creekide and and
amongst us, Father. Thank you so much
for Jesus. uh it's because of him you
made it possible that we can have
relationship with you. And uh Father,
the more we get to know you, the more
we're just amazed about uh the amazing
act of love that you you gave for us.
Father, thank you so much for for your
son. It's in Jesus name we pray. Amen.
