as a wealthy man who had built quite a
substantial business,
powerful man,
but he was getting old and he didn't
have any family, no wife, no children to
leave it to, no one in his company that
he felt very confident about. And so
what he did is he had three nephews and
he called them in one day and he said,
"I've got a proposal for all three of
you." He said, "I can't leave this to
anybody. you're go one of you are going
to be it going to take over this company
and going to run it. He said, "So,
here's my proposal. I'm going to give
each of you the same sum of money. I
don't I don't know which one of you are
the are the proper one to do this with."
He said, "I'm going to give each one of
you the same sum of money and you've got
today until sundown. You're to go out
and you're to spend that sum of money
and you're to bring back in something
that will fill He had a very large
office that will fill my office. Just
something. There you go. And they went
out. So at the end of the day, it was
getting close to sundown. the first one
came in and he brought a bail of hay and
he opened it up and he scattered it
around the room and he kind of covered,
you know, down one wall basically. You
know how a bail of hay would do, but he
scattered it as much as he could. The
second guy came in and he had a big bag
of tinsel, Christmas like tinsel, and he
spread that around as much as he could.
He actually covered more ground than the
bail of hay, which was pretty
substantial because it's fluffy and it
went around. The third guy came in,
didn't have anything in his hand.
He said, "Well, what's going on? What
have you got?" He said, "Well, I'll be
honest with you." He said, "I I gave a
chunk of money to the church and then I
found some guys on the street and and I
gave some of the money to them." He
said, "You didn't bring anything?" He
said, "No."
He cut the lights off and he put a
candle in the middle of the room and he
lit it and the light filled every corner
of the room.
And so the man gave him the business
because he had filled the room up with
light and he saw the value of money,
what it really could do.
Plato said we can easily forgive a child
who is afraid of the dark. Most of us
have been at one point.
So, but the real tragedy in life is when
a man is afraid of the light,
not the dark.
Don't be afraid of the light.
Now, John 8:12 follows John 7:52. And I
need to explain this to you because you
don't know what I'm fixing to talk
about. A lot of what this lesson's about
is going to go right over you. Okay?
Context is everything in the Bible.
Okay? So, I'm going to have to explain
that at the beginning. And at the end,
I'm going to show you something else.
So, you got to the first part of this is
complicated. The middle part of this
lesson is real simple, straightforward.
You you really can't miss it. But you
need to understand the beginning. The
context of it is chapters seven and
eight. Now, chapter 8, you think that's
important and that should be in there
about that woman caught in adultery and
we need that in there. But the oldest
texts do not have that story in it. We
don't know why it's there. We don't know
where it came from. We assume it's
probably true. It happened, but it
doesn't fit here.
And so, we believe it probably was not
originally in right here, that story.
But what is in it is the story about the
feast of tabernacles. Now, the feast of
the tabernacles is a feast that goes on
for like a week, right? And it's
celebrating the coming out of Egyptian
bondage and living in the wilderness and
receiving the law, but living out in the
wilderness. And they needed to remember
that they once lived in the wilderness
as slaves fleeing from their masters.
That was the message of it. But that's
not what goes on the last great day of
the feast. Now, the last great day of
the feast is the big day. And you need
to get this. And you've read chapter 7,
skip over the story of the woman caught
in adultery because it's probably not
right there. And read on. You find John
8:12, which we just read a moment ago,
right? I'm the light of the world. So,
here's the context. In chapter 7, there
is a moment where they bring this big
rock in and they take this water and
they pour it over the rock.
And that is to symbolize, if you will,
when the water came out of the rock in
the wilderness wanderings. Do you
remember that? And they all drank. And
what does Jesus do? He says, "I am the
water." He basically says, "Come to me
all of you who are thirsty and I will
give you drink." Remember that? That's
in chapter 7. And they're all upset that
he said those things.
But then it gets dark on the last great
day of the feast. And when it gets dark
on the last great day of the feast there
in the temple, and all of this is
happening in the court of the women, not
in the normal worship facility, but
where the women gathered and prayed,
okay? had a lot of other things going on
in there. But in that area, that's where
they had the giving. We just talked
about giving. And in that area, they had
these things that looked like trumpet
bowls. And there were 13 of them. And
each of those trumpet bowls was to give
to something different. You had all
kinds of things. Uh some of them were
for the upkeep of the temple. Some of
them were for pigeons for the people who
are really poor. They couldn't even
afford to buy pigeons for their
sacrifices. Some of them were to buy the
wood for the altar. Some of them were
for the incense that they offered in the
temple. Some of them were for vessels
that they had to use and keeping them
clean and tidy because that all had to
be paid for. And some of them were just
for the extras. And that was all in that
same area. And there's a colonade back
in there and there huge colonades in the
court of the women. And those colonades
were designed to set up stands. And what
I'm suggesting to you is when they did
the water, people came in and they
watched. It was like a big show. And
they sat in the stands up in the walls
area. Hundreds sometimes thousands of
people gathered in there watching the
water being torn poured on the rock.
Right. But now the night the night is
when they had four giant candalabbras.
And then they put those four giant
candalabbras in and now it's dark,
right? And they light it and they're so
bright that they literally lit up the
city. You know, there weren't street
lights back then. And so it literally
lit up the whole town of Jerusalem from
these giant candalabbras, right? And
what are they representing? As you might
well remember, the light that led them
on the way. You remember the pillar of
cloud and the pillar of fire? Well, this
is the pillar of fire that led them
through the wilderness. That's what it's
to represent to them. And during that
period, all night long, great men would
stand up and they would teach and preach
and they would talk about this story.
And then they would even sing and pray,
some of them dancing around and they
were happy and praising God. That's what
went on. During the lighting of the
candalabbras
that represented the light in the
wilderness, Jesus says, "I am the
light."
Do you understand the context now? Do
you understand how it upset them?
He said, "I am the light." Now, what's
interesting about light in physics? Do
you know that light has multiple
qualities? There's a, if you've never
looked at it, the double slit
experiment. I'd recommend you look it up
on and watch that. See what the double
slit experiment proves. But it proves
that light is both a particle and a wave
at the same time. Now, that's
impossible.
Did you hear me? That's impossible, but
it's true.
For what we understand, a thing cannot
be two things like that. Well, the light
of the world can be more than one thing
and is. So, the light of the world is
Jesus. We'll talk about that a little
more in just a second, but it's also
just God's word. In Psalm 119
and verse 105, it says, "Your word is a
lamp to my feet and a light to my path."
We just sang that, did we not? Also,
God's law is the light in Proverbs 6 and
verse 23. For the commandment is a lamp
and the light and reproofs of
instruction are the way of life. Also,
God's disciples are called the light of
the world. Matthew 5 14-16, you talking
to his disciples, you, and I'm talking
to you, you are the light of the world.
A city that is set on a hill cannot be
hid, nor do they light a lamp and put it
under a basket, but on a lampstand, and
it gives light to all who are in the
house, talking about the world. Verse
16, let your light so shine before men
that they may see your good works and
glorify your father in heaven. But not
is it only is it those things, but God's
gospel is the light of the world. 2
Corinthians 4:es 4-6 says whose mind the
God of this age has blinded but who do
not believe lest the light of the gospel
of the glory of Christ who is in the
image of God should shine on them for we
do not preach ourselves but Christ Jesus
the Lord and ourselves your bond
servants for Jesus' sake for it is the
God who commanded light to shine out of
darkness who has shone into our hearts
to give the light of the knowledge of
the glory of God in the face of Jesus
Christ. So light can be many things, but
we want to focus on how Jesus
says he's the light of the world. Just
four little ideas. Number one, Jesus
said, "I am the light of the world."
Jesus never said, "I represent the light
of the world.
Jesus doesn't represent the light of the
world. Jesus is
the light of the world. He says, then
Jesus said unto them again, I am the
light of the world. He who follows me
shall not walk in darkness, but have the
light of life. I am the light. That's a
claim to more than you might think
because the I am term comes from Exodus
where God first says to Moses, I am that
I am. He's suggesting divinity here more
than just a thing that he claims to be.
He is suggesting immortality.
He is suggesting immutability. He's
suggesting that he is truly divinity.
John 1 1-10 says this, "In the beginning
was the word, and the word was with God,
and the word was God." He He, not it, he
was in the beginning with God, and all
things were made through him, and
without him nothing was made that was
made. In him was life, and the life was
the light of men. And the light shines
into the darkness, and the darkness did
not comprehend it. There was a man sent
from God whose name was John. This man
came for a witness, to bear witness of
the light, that all through him might
believe. He was not that light. John was
not that light, but was sent to bear
witness of that light. That was the true
light which gives light to every man
coming into the world. He was in the
world and the world was made through him
and the world did not know him. 1
Timothy 6:1 16 who alone has immortality
dwelling in in unapproachable light. I
don't even know what that means. Whom no
man has seen or can see. to whom be
honor and everlasting power. Amen. That
is the light. Who says I am the light?
So the key meaning in this is Jesus
doesn't represent the light.
Jesus says I am. The second truth I want
you to get is the light. He says I am
the light of the world. And then he goes
on to say, "He who follows me shall not
walk in darkness but have the light of
life." The light is his claim that he is
the only light. You get that?
The only light of this world is Jesus.
It's not Muhammad. It's not anybody
else. It's not Confucious. It's not
anybody else. He is the light. He is the
holy light. The light of the vision and
the light of the reason. And thus his
light has authenticity
and authority. His light has revelation
and reflection within our hearts. He's
not a light. The sun is a light.
He is the light. In John 12:es 35 and
36, and then I'll drop down to 44 just
for a sake of time. Then Jesus said to
them, "A little while longer,
the light is with you. Walk while you
have the light, lest darkness overtake
you. He who has walks, he who walks in
darkness does not know where he's going.
While you have the light, believe in the
light that you may become sons of light.
These things Jesus spoke and departed
and was hidden from them. Verse 44, then
Jesus cried out and said, "He who
believes in me believes not in me, but
in him who sent me, and he who sees me
sees him who sent me. I have come as a
light into the world that whoever
believes in me should not abide in
darkness. And then 1 John 1:5 it says
God is light
and in him is no darkness at all. So
fundamentally you need to see him as the
light of the world and the only hope we
have for seeing things as they really
are. If you don't have a light and you
sit in darkness, you cannot see things
as they are.
He is the only way. So you can try to
see things as they are. Listen to
politics or listen to science or listen
to philosophers. But the only way that
you'll actually see the way things
really are is when you are lit up by the
light. Number three,
he goes on to say, "I am the light of
the world."
The entire world.
Yes.
The only light of the entire world. Yes.
It's not the sun out there, folks, that
helps us see. It is this. I am the light
of the world. He who follows me shall
not walk in darkness but have the light
of life. And that's all the people that
are alive today. The world is his claim
that he is the light that gives
emancipation to the entire world. He
gives salvation to the entire world.
He's the light that gives you literally
the empowerment to be saved. That's for
the whole world. It says in John chapter
3, which was read a moment ago, part of
it, verses 16- 21, I want to read. For
God so loved the world, again, not some
of it, not the Jews,
not just some of the Gentiles. Well,
wait a second. You're not talking about
the really bad folks. Absolutely.
If you think you're not good enough to
be even in the room this morning, he's
talking to you. He's talking to me. He's
talking to us all. For God so loved the
world that he gave his only begotten son
that whoever believes in him should not
perish but have everlasting life. For
God did not send his son into the world
to condemn the world, but that the world
through him might be saved. He who
believes in him is not condemned, but he
who does not believe is condemned
already because he has not believed in
the name of the only begotten son of
God. And this is the condemnation that
the light has come into the world and
men love darkness rather than light
because their deeds were evil. Still are
by the way. Verse 20. For everyone
practicing evil hates the light and does
not come to the light. You wonder why
people sometime don't want to go to
church. There you just got it right
there in a nutshell. That's the reason
people don't go to church. Oh, I just
don't like the preaching. I don't like
the singing. I don't like the way they
run business up there. That has nothing
to do with it. What I just read is the
reason people don't go to church. Listen
to it again. For everyone practicing
evil hates the light and does not come
to the light. Why would they want their
deeds exposed? Lest his deeds should be
exposed. Verse 21. But he who does the
truth comes to the light that his deeds
may be clearly seen that they have been
done in God. Now, why do we come?
Because we want God to see us as we are.
And we want to see ourselves as we
really are because that's our only hope.
Amen. Amen. Walls. Verse 21. But he does
not come to the light that his deeds may
be clearly seen that they have been done
in God. John 9:es 4 and 5.
Works of him who sent me while it is
day. The night is coming when no man can
work as long as I am in the world. He's
not in the world the way he was, is he?
As long as I'm come back to this. As
long as I'm in the world, I am the light
of the world.
The world,
the best and the worst of us.
Need to be able to see. It's the only
hope we have, my brothers and sisters.
It's the only hope we have. And if you
look at each part of this, it's critical
to understand this basic truth. Now, the
sad truth, and let me get into that. The
sad truth is is that men fail to
recognize him.
That's what it says. John 1:9 and 10.
The true light gives light to every man.
He was in the world and the world was
made through him and the world did not
know him. Isn't that a sad truth?
It's still going on. Do you know that
there are people who scoff at the name
of Jesus
still don't believe? The witness though
is the light of God in Jesus words.
No man ever spake like this man.
No man. And he couldn't have spoken the
way he did if the wisdom of God was not
in him. The witness is not just in his
words though. the witnesses in his
deeds.
No man ever did what this man did.
There's no man that ever walked on the
water. There's no man that ever raised
the dead and was able to fly up into the
heavens.
No man could do that. No man could heal
every disease of everybody around them.
Everybody healed. No man could cast out
demons out of people's mind. Nothing
like that could be done. His deeds speak
of who he really was. He was that light.
But the witness is also in this one. And
this maybe is the most powerful one. In
the change that he has brought to me,
the change he's brought to you
that bad men can become good.
Oh yeah, he is the light of the world.
But this is also a true prophetic when
it says in John 9:es 4 and 5, I must
work the works of him who sent me while
it is day, the night is coming when no
one can work as long as I am in the
world. I am the light of the world.
There's just sorry there's just some
opportunities which come and then
they're gone.
There it went. I had an opportunity to
invest in Apple.
Didn't do that.
Light and life have time limits. Have
you noticed
you can't do what you once could do if
you're a little older?
It's got limits.
It's ticking.
But hurry.
We got a time limit on this.
There are opportunities
and there are judgments
and they're coming to us all. And when
men see his light,
they are born again.
That's the truth. John 3:3, "Unless one
is born again, he cannot see the kingdom
of God." If you don't understand what
I'm talking about, it's because you are
not born again. And I'm not trying to
diss you. I'm trying to help you see
what you need to see. But you cannot see
it until you're born again. That's the
crazy part of this. It's it's it's like
a conundrum. And when they see the light
of his cross, they're born again. I'll
never forget the night I was baptized.
And that was the thing I kept thinking.
I finally see it.
Once born again, we see the throne of
his judgment and his kingdom. And we
want to submit to it. That's why we
confess Jesus as our Lord. So, a flower
never blooms if it never sees the
sunlight. And you will never be all you
could be until the light of the glory of
his gospel falls upon you. One of the
greatest tragedies that ever happens
is when we live in darkness when we
could live in the light.
Rose Crawford was blind for 50 years.
She had an operation in Ontario in an
Ontario Canada hospital
and she said when she came out of it
they removed the bandages.
I just can't believe it.
The doctors listened to her as she wept
and she was dazzled by the beauty. Did
y'all see the rainbow just before
church?
Imagine not being able to see that.
not being able to look in the face of
the person you love or your child or see
a smile.
Think of the things that she missed.
Think of how terrible that was. Here's
what was really, really terrible about
what I've just told you. This woman
finally could see and she's like dazzled
by it. Right? The terrible thing was is
that she didn't believe there was any
hope for her and she never looked. But
the surgery that made her see had been
available for over 20 years.
She could have seen from the age of 30,
but she only started seeing from the age
of 50.
Now that's a tragedy. 20 years in
darkness when you could be in light. You
know what's greater than that? to sit in
a church building and not be right with
God and be in the darkness and not know
you're in the darkness and not even make
the effort to have the surgery that
could help you see. You would never ever
consider walking down an aisle. Never
ever consider being dunked in water in
front of a bunch of people making my
hair look all nappy. I'm not going to do
that. I'm not going to be embarrassed in
front of a bunch of people. I'm not
going to do that. I don't see anything
in it. There it is. You're in the
darkness if that's you and cannot see.
And the surgery has been available since
Jesus
rose from the dead.
I am the light of the world.
Would you come to the light? The
invitation is yours while we stand and
while we
