Now, if you were a brave child, which I
never was all that brave. I was a little
scared of my mom and my dad. But if if
you're a brave child, you could always
uh be real disobedient and then turn and
ask your mom, "Mom, was I adopted?" And
she might answer back, "Not yet." So,
and I just remember my mom spoke to me a
lot more than my father did. Parenting
may be actually the hardest job in the
world as far as people are concerned. I
don't know if you've actually looked at
the statistics on this, but on average
62% of all parents say that uh raising
children is harder than they expected it
to be. Uh 30% of all moms have said that
it is a lot harder than they expected it
to be. It's quite demanding and young
people, you may not know how to
appreciate your mom right now or your
dad, but quite honestly, they're going
through far more than you're aware of.
And it is actually quite hard to give
you the beautiful life they're trying to
give you. To raise godly children in an
ungodly world where we live, uh we have
to teach them. Um there are things that
the Bible very specifically uh go into
about what we're supposed to teach them.
And um the simplest text on this subject
is Deuteronomy chapter 6. And it points
out three things as you can see on the
screen to obey God's will. Uh to love
God wholeheartedly or with all your
heart and to know God's word. And those
basically the most important things we
are to do for ourselves, but we're to do
for our families and we're to do for our
children. We need to teach them to obey
God's will, to love God wholeheartedly,
and to know God's word, which means we
have to teach them God's word. And to
raise godly children in an ungodly world
where we live, uh you can't be selfish.
Uh I know sometimes children will think
parents are not giving them the things
that they want and that they're holding
back from them. But the truth is is to
raise godly children in an ungodly world
requires a great deal amount of
selflessness on the par part of parents.
Psalm 127:3 says, "Children are a gift
of the Lord." And so, uh, it's that gift
that keeps on giving and giving in
different ways because you have to keep
on giving to take care of them.
Uh, I love uh song. I want to come back
to this in just a moment. I love a song
that I heard back in
1989. It was sung by Steve Green, but
it's written by a guy named uh Greg
Nelson and John Moore and Philip Nash
and they co-authored this song and it's
meant so much to me since the
80s and it's about children. And it was
at that time, you know, we had little
ones still. Um, it says halls ring with
echoes of laughter. And I remember we
had a long hall in our house at the
time. Halls ring with echoes of laughter
long after they've come and gone. For
the memory of a tiny face and playful
grin still brings a smile, reminding us
again that children are a treasure from
the Lord. songs sweetly sung by the
cradle, prayers whispered just before
bed. And we taught them Jesus loves you
in a simple song. And we pray they won't
forget their whole lifelong. Yes,
children are a treasure from the Lord.
Those bright and trusting eyes seem to
take us by surprise, and they see what
others older seem to miss. May the gift
of faith they hold grow as they grow
old. And may they always know God will
never let them go. At 6 they're
beginning their school days. 16 and
they're driving the car and at 21 will
let them go on their first date. But of
course they'll be at home in bed by 8.
Yes, children are a treasure from the
Lord. Homes ring with echoes of laughter
long after they've come and gone. And
just knowing that our children really
love the Lord is a faithful parents
passion and reward. Yes, children are a
treasure from the Lord. Now, to raise
godly children in an ungodly world in
which we live, you got to do a lot of
praying.
That's what this lesson's about. So,
moms and dads must pray and not lose
heart because it's so easy to lose
heart. Things go wrong. Your children
will do wrong. Things will go upside
down. I know you think your child will
be perfect. He or she will not be
because they have an imperfect mom and
dad.
Prayer must be done without
ceasing. I know you'll think there's no
way I could pray without ceasing. Well,
you have kids long enough, you'll figure
out a way. I promise you. And we must
let the children come to
Jesus. You have to bring them and you
have to encourage it and you have to
talk to them about Jesus. If you do that
and you make prayer kind of the center
of your home, they don't have to see you
praying that much. I know this may sound
like, oh, they need you need to be in
devos and they need to see you praying
all the time. No, this lesson's not
about that. No, but you do need to be in
prayer. So, I'm going to take the sermon
on the mount. This is going to be a
really simple lesson. I'm going take the
sermon on the mount. There's actually
three texts in the sermon on the mount
about prayer. Did you know that? three
times that it's discussed and I'm going
to take them. It's generically used for
anybody. So, this is prayer that would
fit anybody. So, don't think that this
only is going to fit moms or dads. It'll
fit anybody, but it's what particularly
moms and dads and today moms should
think about when they're praying. And
these should be the goals of your
prayers because these are the central
core teachings of Jesus about the
subject of prayer. So, here we go.
Number one, pray for your child by
asking, seeking, and knocking for them.
I want to read the text. This is not
fancy. Ask and it will be given to you.
Seek and you will find. This is all
about prayer, by the way. Knock and it
will be open to you. That's what you do
in prayer. For everyone who asks
receives, and he who seeks finds, and to
him who knocks it will be opened. Or
what man is there among you who if his
son asks for bread, will he give him a
stone? You wouldn't do that. Verse 10.
Or if he asks for a fish, will he give
him a serpent? I mean, you might give
him a place snake, but you're not going
to give him a serpent. If you then,
being evil, know how to give good gifts
to your children, how much more will
your father who is in heaven give good
things to those who ask him? Now Luke 11
and:e 13 is the parallel to that
particular promise right there. And I
think it needs to be read when it says
if you then being evil, that's not a
very good compliment, is it? But we live
in an evil world and we do evil things
being evil know how to give good gifts
to your children. How much more will
your heavenly father give the Holy
Spirit to those who ask him? So yes,
even though some don't like that kind of
talk, it is appropriate to ask for the
Holy Spirit because quite honestly, we
all need a more Holy Spirit, do we not?
So praying now, this is what it this
little text suggests what parents and
today, particularly moms, we should all
be praying and praying and asking for
the food for our children. What does
that mean? Well, they do need daily
bread. Yes. But they need daily
bread. Okay. So, there's pray that
they'll get fed. Fish. Yes, they need
fish. We're going to have a fish fry.
Absolutely. Love fish. You don't love
fish, don't come to the fish fry. So,
but love fish. But, you know, that
speaks to something a little
deeper. And then the spirit.
Pray for the spirit. Absolutely. There's
not a person in this room that couldn't
use more of the Holy
Spirit. But praying also, we should be
praying and seeking. What are you
seeking for? You're always seeking for
that which you don't have, which means
it's hidden to you. You seek for what is
hidden to you. You seek in prayer for
your children for what's hidden to them.
Yes, there are a lot of things hidden to
a child they haven't seen. They don't
know anything about. You pray that that
hidden thing will be known. So you pray
that their hidden knowledge will be
revealed because you want them to grow.
You pray that their hidden truths will
be made known to them. You want your
children to understand the truth and not
some political jargon, right? But just
truth, real truth. Truth that comes from
the holy word. And then you're praying
for them. You're praying by knocking.
What do you knock for? You knock to have
something opened. So you want to pray
that that your children will realize
that there are some doors that are
closed that could be opened. There are
doors of opportunity that are closed to
us all. We don't get into every door.
Nobody gets all the opportunities. But
your child, you want them to get the
opportunities that you see that they
would be good at. So you pray for open
doors. Knock, knock, knock until the
Lord opens doors for your children. So
you you want to see your kids do more
than you did, see more than you did,
find out more than you did, especially
when it comes to spiritual matters.
Amen. So let's pray daily for our
children by asking, seeking, and
knocking for them. Not for you. This is
not a prayer for you. This is a prayer
for them because they are living in an
ungodly world and they need all the
prayers they can get. Number two, the
next section is in Matthew chapter 6.
Praying for your child in sincerity,
secrecy, and sness for them. Let's read
the text. Matthew chapter 6, I'll start
in verse 5. And when you pray, you shall
not be like the hypocrites, the
pretenders. For they love to pray,
standing in the synagogues and on the
corners of the street, that they may be
seen by men. Assuredly I say to you,
they have their reward. People are
seeing them. They got what they wanted.
Verse six, but you when you pray, go
into your room. Now this means, listen
to me. This is not to be done in front
of your children.
If you only pray when your children are
present, you're not doing what this
says. So, but you when you pray, go into
your room and when you have shut your
door, pray to your father who is in the
secret place. And your father who sees
in secret will will reward you openly. I
don't know why that my mouth didn't work
there. Verse seven. And when you pray,
do not use vain repetitions as the
heathens do. Now, I used to think that
that meant that it's wrong to say the
same thing. That's not what it's
saying. And when you pray, uh, do not
use vain repetitions as the heathens do,
for they think that they will be heard
for their many words. In context, it's
talking about being heard by other
people. So, it's trying to make a show.
That's like songs or anything else. If
it's because we love to repeat the
thing, that's wonderful. If we're doing
it for the big show, not so
great. So that's the point. So it's not
that God can't figure out the
difference. God definitely knows the
difference. Verse 8, therefore do not be
like them, for your father knows the
things you have need of before you ask
him. Luke 11:2, the parallel to this
says it this way for the next section.
He preempts it with these words. And
you'll understand why I say this in just
a moment. So Luke 11:2 says, "So he said
to them, when you pray,
say." Now, I don't know if you know
this, but that's a
command. So for those of you who think
that you shouldn't say the next few
words as a prayer and repeat it because
we're not to use vain repetitions, you
need to rethink what you're thinking.
And when you pray, say. And then it says
in our text, back to where we were,
verse 9, in this manner, therefore pray.
Which means to say, our father in
heaven, hallowed be your name, your
kingdom come, your will be done on earth
as it is in heaven. Give us this day our
daily bread, and forgive us our debts as
we forgive our debtors, and do not lead
us into temptation, but deliver us from
evil. or yours is class the kingdom and
the power and the glory forever.
Amen.
Now, love to see your child pray.
Amen. You see your child pray. There's
only one thing better than seeing your
child pray. You don't know what it is.
It's not seeing your wife or your
husband pray, although that's wonderful.
It's in your grandchild
pray. That's sweet, folks. I'm gonna
tell you something. That's sweet. But
praying, how should we
pray? We should be praying for them in
sincerity. It's not about
ostentation. It's not about so somebody
can say, "Boy, you did a really good job
with that prayer. Oh, you worded that in
such a way. I've never heard a prayer
worded that way before." That's the
reason I believe in the Lord's Prayer
because it's the least ostentatious
prayer you can pray. It's so
basic and it's absolutely
true. Our Father, who art in
heaven, hallowed be thy name. How simple
is that prayer? Ostentine. So, it's not
to be seen or heard. It's not to be seen
by your children. That's not wrong for
your children to see you pray. I mean,
you're going to pray at the mills, but
it isn't for them to see you pour out
your heart. That's for you when no one's
around that you're going to pray and
you're going to pray for their
sincerity. This is not praying that you
would become sincere. This is praying
sincerely that they would be sincere.
That not that they would put on a show.
They wouldn't come to church just
because you're making them. they would
come to church because they want to
come. You praying that prayer that their
faith would be sincere and not just to
make daddy and mama
happy, but that they would be sincere.
You're praying that they would pray in
secret when you're not around. Not just
with the table, but they would find a
moment to pray. Heard this little girl
that got lost. She's out in the woods
and she was saying the ABCs. A B CDE E F
G. What are you doing, little girl?
She's just like two or three. Said, I
was praying. So, what do you mean you
was praying? Said, well, I don't know
what words to use. So, I was just
figured he'd put them
together. Pretty smart. But it was in
secret. Nobody was hearing. No
observation. It's in your closet,
wherever your closet is. And praying in
sness. You don't have to be original.
You don't have to be crafty in prayer.
You don't have to think it through and
get it just right. You just have to
start talking in our Father who art in
heaven's a good way to start if you have
nothing else. You say, "Well, I don't
know what to pray." Our Father, yeah,
you do. I've just told you. Our Father,
who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name.
Thy kingdom come, thy will be done.
Yeah, you know exactly what to pray.
When you don't know what to pray, pray
it cuz you were told to pray it. Amen.
So, pray it.
So, and and but I don't want to use vain
repetitions. If you're doing in front of
people, that's vain repetitions. But if
you're doing it the Lord, it gets more
sincere the more often you say
it. 25. Our fathers are not
inappropriate. We just sang a song. I
believe we repeated a couple of things
several times there. Didn't bother one
of you then, did
it? Yeah. So, repeating is not the
problem. Here's what I want you to do is
I want you to teach your kids to say a
prayer. That's a really good one. Our
father and get them to and pray that
they'll do the same old boring prayer
every
time. Hope you're listening cuz let's
pray daily for our child that they would
pray themselves in
sincerity, in secrecy, and in
sess. You change your world.
Number
three, pray for your child for
loveliness, for
blessedness, and kindness for them.
That's what the things you want to pray
that they'll receive because this is
what's going to happen. Matthew 5:es 43
and 44. Now, we're going to talk about
the real relationship we have with our
kids, especially as they become
teenagers. Okay, let's be honest. Now,
verse 43. You have heard that it was
said, "You shall love your neighbor and
hate your enemy." But I say to you, love
your enemies. That's your teenage
kids. Are you hearing me? That's the
truth. You don't lie. I'm not a liar.
I'm telling you straight up. That's who
your enemies are, your teenage kids. But
I say to you, love your enemies. Bless
those who curse you. That's your teenage
kids. Just because you ain't heard it
doesn't mean they aren't doing it in the
back
room after you've told them no the 100th
time that they're not going to get to do
I'm telling you they go back there and
they go okay I'm just telling you that's
the truth and you think that happens to
some the the word of God Solomon said
don't listen too closely to your
servants because you will hear them
curse
you people who work for you say bad
things about
you do good to those who hate you. That
couldn't be my
kid. Maybe. And pray for those who
spitefully use you. That's your kid. And
persecute you. That's your kid. And Luke
6 27 and 28. Now, some of you look at
those little babies and say, "Oh,
they'll never do that." Oh, yes, they
will. Luke 6:es 27-28. But I say to you
who hear, "Love your enemies. Do good to
those who hate you. Bless those who
curse you and pray for those who
mistreat you. That's your kids. Now, I'm
not saying it doesn't apply to everybody
else. I'm just applying it one way right
now. That is absolutely true and you
need to hear it. So, what do we pray for
in this? We pray for their
loveliness. Lord, help them to learn to
love the way I'm loving them. They may
be hating me right now, but I'm going to
love them
anyway. Pray for their
blessedness. It feels like they want to
curse me. I'm not going to curse them,
but Lord, please help them to learn to
bless and not curse.
Amen. And pray for their
kindness. Right now, they are
mistreating me.
They are saying ugly things. They doing
mean things. Anything but what I asked
them to do. They seem like they are
absolutely bound and determined to not
do what I asked them to do when it's
such a simple thing like take out the
garbage, right? Such a simple thing.
They're mistreating. Lord, help them to
learn to be kind and to not be people
who
mistreat. Now, what do I mean by that?
They have to turn on you so that when
they leave home, you're good with
it. It's a natural
occurrence. It has to
happen so that they will
leave. So rejoice. Praise the Lord. My
kid doesn't want to live with me
forever.
But in the middle of praying for that,
pray, "Lord, they need to learn how to
be lovely and
loving. Lord, please help them to learn
how to be a blessing and not just bless
me out. Lord, please bless them so that
they'll learn how to be kind and not be
unkind." Yeah, this is a prayer for a
parent. I promise you. You may not think
so because maybe you've got little kids,
but you will find I am not telling you
stories. This is the
lesson. So these are the three kinds of
prayers we're told to do. We pray and
I'm applying it to your children. So
pray for your children by asking,
seeking, and knocking for them. Asking
for things they don't have or they might
need for sustenance. Seeking what is
hidden to them. knocking opportunities
for them. Sincerity, they need to be
sincere about this faith. They need to
have it in secret. They need to do the
same thing over and over and over.
That's called church. Church, church,
church, church, church, church, church.
Wonder how many times you go to church
in your
life. Church. Pray for your child for
loveliness. that they'll have a lovely
heart, a blessed heart, a kind
heart. Now, the Lord's prayer was always
meant to not be a personal
prayer. It was always meant to be an
intercessory prayer. If you'll pay
attention, it's our not father. It's our
father, not just father or my father.
Forgive us. give us our
user, our our we we it's all plural. So
it's never been for just me. In 1st
Samuel 12 and verse 23, we have this
statement. Far be it from me, this is
Samuel, far be it from me that I should
sin against the Lord in ceasing to pray
for you.
So if it's true that we all need to
learn to pray for everybody else, not
just ourselves, right? And that's the
reason our father is a good
prayer. Cuz sometimes you forget to pray
for others, don't
you? It starts God please, right? And
it's all about what you
want. But that isn't what he taught us
to do. He said, "Our Father, say these
words, give
us our daily bread. Give us, forgive us,
not just me, right?"
So, if that's true, and it is because
you just read it, since that's true, how
much more so is it true that not only is
it right to pray for your children, it's
a sin to not pray for your
children. So, let us pray for our child.
We need to pray for a lot of things for
our children. I'm not touched on but
just a few things. Well, we should pray
for their
mates. Well, my kids three. Well,
they'll have a mate one day, hopefully.
Pray for their mates. Pray for their
children. Pray for their relatives who
they're going to have to learn to live
with. Pray for their co-workers. Pray
for their church brethren. Oh, there's
many to pray for. One of my favorite
songs came from 1985. Tells you how old
I am. Wayne Watson. Some of you weren't
even born in ' 85. Andrew Dorf,
Claus Durandorf, that's hard to say. And
Mike Busby wrote this in m 1985. It goes
like this. Somewhere in the world
today, a little girl will go out to play
all dressed up in mama's clothes. At
least that's the way I suppose it goes.
Somewhere in the world tonight, before
she reaches to turn out the light,
she'll be praying from a tender heart, a
simple prayer that's a work of art. And
I don't even know her name, but I'm
praying for her just the same, that the
Lord will write his name upon her heart.
Cuz somewhere in the course of this
life, a little boy will need a godly
wife. So hold on to Jesus, baby,
wherever you
are. Somewhere in the world out
there, that little girl is learning how
to care. She's picking up her mama's
charms or swinging around in her daddy's
arms.
somewhere in the world to be. Though the
future's not really clear to
me, there could be a tender
love grounded in eternal love above. And
I don't even know her
name, but I'm praying for her just the
same that the Lord will write his name
upon her heart. Cuz somewhere in the
course of this life, a little boy will
need a godly wife. So hold on to Jesus,
baby, wherever you are. Hold on to Jesus
wherever you are.
Deb and I prayed a lot over a lot of
babies. Heath was a baby once. I know
it's hard to believe. Emily was a baby
once. Bethany was a baby
once. Lily was a baby once. Riley was a
baby once. Mason used to be a baby about
20 years
ago. Pray with
me. Father, we lift up our children to
you.
We're asking for your protection and
guidance. May they grow in
wisdom. May they grow in
kindness. May they grow in compassion.
May they be a blessing to those around
them. Grant them strength and courage to
stand for what's right and a heart that
seeks your
will. May you open up doors of
opportunity for them. Help them to be
sincere.
Father, may their faith be real. We
entrust them to your care because we
just can't be
there in Jesus name.
Amen. So, it's not Father's
Day, but it is kind of like a parents
day. I hope you've done something for
those mothers out there
because they just saved the world and we
didn't do it.
Gentlemen, they did it.
