questions can be a bit tricky. I thought
I'd try to answer a few that sound like
they really need to be answered. Would
you rather fight a one horses-sized duck
or 100 duck-sized horses? I decided 100
duck- sized horses. If you could have
any superpower, but it had to be a
really useless one, what would it be?
And I thought maybe finding lost things
that no one wants. If animals could
talk, which would be the rudest? It's
obvious, right? It'd have to be a cat.
If you were a flavor of ice cream, what
would you be and why? It be vanilla with
Heath bar. That's because that's my
wife's favorite. But what if the
weirdest thing you have ever What is the
weirdest thing that you have ever eaten?
And that would be Chitlins for me. What
is your most useless uh talent? Uh chi.
Uh, what is the best costume you've ever
worn uh to a party? Obviously
McDutton's. If you had to eat only one
dish for the rest of your life, what it
would be? It has to be macaroni and
cheese. What if What is your favorite
smell and why? White magnolia. I won't
tell you why. What's the strangest dream
you've ever had? Uh, talked to an alien
rat one time. If you could describe your
life as a movie, what genre would it be?
Uh, tragic comedy. What fictional
character would you most like to live
with? Minnie Mouse. Hey man, I'm Mickey.
Uh, what is one thing you are craving
right now to be done? Uh, so
those are I thought those were worth
repeating. All right. So tonight our
questions tonight uh what if human
limitation is not failure but design
that has got several ramifications.
I'm not sure where this is going but
we'll run down the rabbit hole the best
I can. Uh oh we did that didn't we? Uh
y'all didn't want to see those. All
right so here we go. uh viewing human
limitations not as failures but as
intentional designs
um has a lot of implications. It has
implications in other fields other than
religion. Religion obviously but in
engineering and psychology and
philosophy. Uh there's human limitations
uh could affect what we call
engineering. Uh and if design is is what
we are rather than human error then we
reframe
uh it a design failure and that really
is important in engineering because
there are predictable human limitations.
Uh for example, you never want to have
one step in a factory. You always want
to have at least two or no steps at all
because one step is a tripping hazard
because of our nature. Uh there's normal
lapses in attention as a human being. Uh
there's built-in buffers also and slack
and safety concerns. And if a user in a
product like uh uh something with it, if
uh if the user struggles with a product,
it's usually assumed it's the product
design failing. It's not always, but you
normally if you have a product, you try
to treat it like it is the product's
problem. Engineering uh absolutely has
to have um experiments and prototypes
and you expect some failure because
humans have limitations and since they
were designed by someone that means that
maybe there are such things as
limitations by design. Human limitations
therefore can go several different
places. Uh,
what is that?
What's it doing up there?
Well, I don't know why that's up there,
but we have one for tonight. That's
weird. Okay,
that is just weird. Well, y'all just
going to have to ignore that. Listen to
me. I made one. Thought I posted it, so
I don't know where it's at. Maybe y'all
can find it up there, wherever it's at.
Human limitations. Okay. uh affect alco
uh psychology. So if we've been limited
by design, then you've got to embrace
some limitations as sources of strength.
In other words, uh you need to
acknowledge these limitations that they
could result in humility. Uh it opens
doors to seeking help, to collaboration,
to interdependence, to shared support.
So they might be a good thing to have
some psychological limitations by
design. uh it could highlight unique
talents and it also could help us work
together and complement each other's
skills. So that might be a good thing.
Human limitations when understood and
accepted can provide the motivation
needed for us to overcome some
self-imposed boundaries since we would
work together. So that's human
limitations as it relates to psychology.
There there might be human limitations
that are built into the sink uh based
upon philosophy. What might seem as a
human design flaw is often a tradeoff
for a greater advantage maybe elsewhere.
So we may need some weakness so that
we'd have greater strength. I don't know
if you've ever noticed it before, but
someone who is extremely gifted in one
area is often not so gifted in another.
And that might be a good thing. So human
limitations serve as a mechanism maybe
for all people to understand their place
in the community and you because you
have something a little better than
someone else and you're weak in another
area makes you feel like you need a
community to get along. So it might help
in philosophy and seeing limitations as
designs rather than only a personal
failing encourages more resilient
systems and empathy and will leverage
each other. I hope they find that. All
right, let me get to the biblical answer
on this though. Human limitations. How
would that affect if it's by design? How
would it affect religion? Well, God
designed us uh with limitations.
Theoretically,
uh that would be limitations in our
understanding. You cannot understand
everything.
Uh free will. There might be limitations
in free will. You might want to believe
that you have free will about
everything, but you certainly do not.
You cannot choose to stop your heart.
You cannot choose to stop breathing. And
you cannot choose to stop eating in
perpetuity. There are limitations of
what you have. And with some of that,
the importance of having some
limitations is related to the
seriousness of some of your choices. Let
me let me walk you through a few
scriptures. If you want to look at
something, since you can't look at that,
might get your Bible out and read these.
Romans 8:es 18-23.
For I considered that the sufferings of
this present time are not worthy to be
compared with the glory which shall be
revealed in us. For the earnest
expectation of the creation earnestly
waits for the revealing of the sons of
God. For the creation was subjected to
futility.
Here's the key part. Not willingly. So
the futility that you're subjected to
was not a choice by you. You didn't
choose it. Not willingly, but because of
him who subjected it in hope. God chose
to put us in the Garden of Eden with the
options. You didn't choose that. Verse
21. Because the creation itself also
will be delivered from the bondage of
corruption into the glorious liberty of
the children of God. For we know that
the whole creation groans and labors
with birth pains together until now. Not
only that, but we also who have the
first fruits of the spirit, even we
ourselves grown within ourselves eagerly
waiting for the adoption, the redemption
of the body. Clearly, this body in this
state, in this world, has limitations
and that is by design. Uh Romans 9:21-23
goes into this in a different way. It
says, "Does not the potter have power
over the clay?" You're the clay, he's
the potter. from the same lump to make
one vessel for honor and another for
dishonor. Well, that sounds almost like
some people don't have choices. Well,
all of us don't have choices about
everything. That's just the way it is.
If you think you can at my height be a
basketball player that dunks a
basketball, I'm fooling myself. There
are limitations that I have and I don't
have a choice about it. Verse 22. What
if God wanting to show his wrath and to
make his power known endured with much
suffering the vessels of wrath prepared
for destruction that he might make known
the riches of his glory on the vessels
of mercy which he hath prepared
beforehand for glory. What he's really
saying there is the limitations that we
have as human beings can accomplish
three things. In fact, because we are
weak and the devil can overcome us and
because we have to deal with the devil,
there's three ways that God expresses
things about himself that he would not
be able to express otherwise. So, for
his own glory, he needed to be able to
express his own wrath. If we were all
perfect, never did anything wrong,
weren't capable of making mistakes, the
wrath of God would not be known. Now,
what's the significance of that? Well,
if you don't know the wrath of God, then
the next thing you also don't know his
power. And the only way you can check
God's power to find out exactly how
powerful he is is it tested. If I want
to know how strong you are, we get in a
wrestling match. I find out right away
that you can beat me. Okay, that's just
the ladies, but his power. And then it
goes on to say that the riches be
demonstrated on the vessels of mercy.
So, one of the critical things is that
we need to understand that God's
merciful. So if God hadn't made us
limited and hadn't made us subjected to
the sins that are capable in this world
and hadn't given us that choice, then we
wouldn't have known his wrath. We
wouldn't have known his power and we
wouldn't have known anything about
mercy. So there are good reasons for
things happening that seem like they
have no perfect reason to begin with. So
are there limitations? Yes, they are.
Romans 11:32, another reason for our
limitations and another reason for our
easy disobedience. He says in verse 32,
"For God has committed them all." That's
you and me, all every man that's ever
lived, every woman that's ever lived.
God has committed them all to
disobedience that he might have mercy on
all. He has allowed you to be
disobedient. Not only that, but he made
you weak enough where you would be
disobedient. He has made you subject to
disobedience. He didn't make you
disobey, but he made you subject to it.
And by doing that, he has committed us
all to disobedience that he might have
mercy on all. That just might be the
best truth you've heard in your life.
The second area which you'll never see
any on the screen, sorry, is grief.
Okay, so grief, what of it? Grief is
that emotional and physical response to
a significant loss. Uh it could be a
death of a loved one. It could be to a
divorce. It could be job loss. And it
manifests itself in a lot of different
ways. It can manifest itself as shock.
It can manifest itself as sadness or
denial or anger or bargaining or
depression or numbness. It can change
your appetite. It can change your sleep
habits. It can change your mood swings.
You may be doing this with your mood
swings. Coping involves support usually,
not just doing this by yourself. If you
were really in deep grief, you could use
some support from friends, from family,
professionals, maintaining routines.
Finding ways to honor the lost will help
you. But it's one of the great reasons
church is such a blessing because when
you lose people, it's nice to have some
people. So, grief, there are some
emotional expectations. You may
experience a wide range of troubling
emotions. So give yourself some space.
Don't expect yourself when you're in the
middle of grief to just snap out of it.
Grief can so impact you. It can cause
physical changes. You can literally get
physically sick from grief. So don't
underestimate that. If you're not
feeling well and you're going through a
grief period, you might want to go to
the doctor. The intensity of your
feelings may come in waves and some of
them may be so intense that you almost
can't take the moment. Grief has fairly
common traits though. Uh but when I say
that, you you need to understand that no
two people grieve exactly the same. So
it's absolutely unique. We're similar in
the way we grieve because we're all
humans, but we do not grieve exactly the
same. So those are emotional
expectations you should have. Here's
some coping expectations you should
have. You should talk to others. If
you're in the middle of grief and you're
struggling with it, talk to some
friends, talk to family members, talk to
your doctor, see what he might be able
to help you with. Talk to a counselor.
Uh just talk about your feelings. One of
the most important things in a sudden
death, if you have anybody in your
family just die like that, totally
unexpected. If that happens in your life
and it's somebody that means a great
deal to you, the worst thing you can do
is to stuff it in and not talk about
them anymore, the most important thing
you need to do is bring them up and
encourage the people around you to talk
about them. You need to hear their name
and that is a critical psychological
barrier that a lot of people don't
recognize that they need to do.
Maintaining a routine of a regular sleep
is critical. Healthy eating can be
critical at moments like that. remember
that the the loss uh needs to be
remembered through various rituals. Now,
a lot of people are going to really mess
up. Listen to me on this. This is really
important because I'm speaking about our
culture right now. One of the worst
things our culture is doing now is it's
so celebrating the death of somebody,
it's not mourning the death of somebody.
People are no longer having funerals.
They're having celebrations of life. And
they think they're being so good about
that. But that's not all we need to do.
Yes, we need to celebrate the person
that lived, but we also need to grieve.
We need to hurt. It is essential to
survival. And you need to remember the
that some rituals are actually really
good. And you say, "Well, that'll
that'll scar my little child if they
grieve the dog that died." No, it'll
scar them if you just let it disappear.
And we don't know where Spot is anymore.
He just disappeared.
What do you mean he just dis
We need to grieve. You You need to write
things in books that you remember there.
Memorial services are important. Um you
need to be patient. Grief takes time.
There's no set deadline on grief. And if
you think, well, this is I've grieved
this long, that's enough. I'm going to
tell you something. 20 years from now,
someone you love. 30 years from now,
someone you love, 40 years from now,
someone you love, all of a sudden a
thought will come to you and you'll
suddenly be in tears.
So, grief is
something that you need to learn to cope
with. But grief is not sinful. It is not
wrong.
Uh, it's not only a human emotion,
it is a God emotion.
That's right. God grieavves.
Now, Jews believe, and I think they're
right, and I think we're wrong, Jews
believe that grieving is holy. Not just
good for you, but a holy thing to do.
And not only should you grieve, you
should have momentas and plaques and
places. They have the whailing wall.
They go to a grave, they put a rock on
it, so whoever else might go to the
grave will recognize someone else went
there and grieved.
Grieving's good for you, not bad for
you. And it's not an evil thing. It's a
God thing. Genesis 6:6, sorry. God was
sorry that he made man and he was
grieved in his heart. It's a feeling he
feels. Psalm 78:40. It grieved him. You
grieved him in the desert. That's in the
wilderness. Psalm 95:10, for 40 years I
was grieved with that generation. He
felt grief. Absolutely. Isaiah 62:10,
the the rebel and uh they rebelled and
he grieved uh in his holy spirit. in
Mark 3 and verse 5, being grieved at the
hardness of their heart. Ephesians 4:30,
and do not grieve the Holy Spirit of
God. So, while there are those who would
try to protect you from grief, I would
call upon you to think a little deeper
than that. God gave us that thing called
grief. It isn't a human created
phenomenon. It is a God phenomenon
that's been gifted to man who's made in
the image of God. And so don't neglect
it. Don't wallow in it, but don't
neglect it. Grieve. Next question. Last
question.
This is probably the most interesting
question in my mind what we're talking
about tonight. Domestic abuse and a
spouse's obligation to an abusive
partner. What are our responsibilities?
Uh the person that wrote this question,
who I don't know who wrote it, let me
read what they said after that. I know
my personal belief on it, but wondering
if someone who had a similar situation
in mine would take some comfort in a
study on this. I was in a dangerous
situation every single day of my life,
and I felt as though I had to stay
because of my spiritual obligation to my
marriage. If even one person in my
religious circle had said, "It's okay to
remove yourself from that situation," I
pro probably would have left years
before I did. But what I got from the
church was the exact opposite. A lot of
shame and guilt. That's sad. Okay, I'm
probably going to take a position that
those of you who consider yourselves to
be very conservative aren't going to
like at all. So, just put fingers in
your ear. Domestic abuse is sinful
and the perpetrator of abuse is guilty
of sin, serious sin. The survivor who
leaves a relationship of domestic abuse
is not guilty of sin.
The Bible identifies abuse with misuse
of power and condemns all such
behaviors. Now, you may have convinced
yourself that you're such a spiritual
person, it'd be okay if they just killed
me. I don't think that's a spiritual
walk. You may have been told the Bible
teaches lifelong commitments to
marriage. And it's the reason that you
must overlook overlook the abuse because
you could only leave if they committed
adultery. But folks, abuse is never
overlooked in the Bible. And to teach
that kind of thing is dangerous. And you
risk people's lives for such things as
that. The Bible is clear that violence
is a sin. Genesis 4:8. That rape of
Diana was a sin. Genesis 34. That rape
of the woman of Bethlehem was a sin.
Judges 19 and 20. That rape of Tamar in
2 Samuel 13 was a sin. That the violence
against Jeepa's daughter was sinful.
Judges 11:29 and 40. That the Levitical
uh concubine that was cut all into those
pieces. Judges 19-20. Folks, these
things are wicked. Listen to this word.
Have you ever heard of the group called
Hamas?
Anybody heard of Hamas?
You know it's You never heard of Hamas?
Hamas, the Hebrew word Hamas means
violence.
It means wrongdoing.
It means wickedness. It means sin. It
means injustice.
It means verbal violence and it's used
over 60 times in the scriptures. The
central teaching of the Bible is that
God is good.
What a concept.
Psalm 34:8, taste and see that the Lord
is good. Now, what that means is he's
kind to the evil. So, it doesn't mean
I'm suggesting that one act of abuse
gives you full right to walk away
immediately. I'm not suggesting any such
thing as that. But there is and there is
a a goodness that should allow you to
put up with a certain degree of evil. I
get that because nobody's married to a
perfect person
and you're not the perfect one in the
marriage either.
Okay? So get over yourself and blaming
everybody, the other one who having all
the problem. That's just never the case.
Luke chapter 6 and verse 35, he he
talking about God is kind to the
unthankful and the evil. Thus, here's
the point. Maliciousness, violence,
abuse, rape, neglect, harm, injury,
misuse, evil speaking is sinful and
anti- good.
on these two things. I gave you six
verses a minute ago and 17 right there
and we're not going to see them. All
right. So, here's where I want to go
though. Okay. Now, some of you are just
totally when I said what I said about
MDR while ago, you I lost you. So, you
need to listen up because I'm going to
get real biblical here and you need to
put your thinking cap on because some
people think they understand the whole
story on marriage, divorce, and remarage
and therefore you could never leave
anybody that was about to beat you to
death. And the Bible doesn't teach that.
By the way,
let me give you first of all what the
Jewish understanding is from the
Babylonian Talmud. This is really
interesting because I'm going to teach
you something about the law of the
pursuer. I don't know why I haven't
heard this teaching in the church, but
if you don't know about the law of the
pursuer, look it up. Look it up. Study
it. It combines several Old Testament
laws to draw a conclusion. And it is
perfectly right. It's not close to being
right. It is right. It is a biblical
concept. Here's the law of the pursuer
from the Babylonian Talba. I just read
the excerpt. It says, "And these are the
ones, and you got to understand this,
the middle of sentence." Basically,
these are the ones whom one must save
even with their lives. What it's saying
is there are people that you are to step
in and save even if it means it could
kill you.
You could die doing it.
Okay, that's serious, isn't it? You got
to save somebody's life. And even if it
takes your life to do it. This is Jewish
teaching. It's Old Testament, but it's
critical. Listen now. And these are the
ones whom one must save, even with their
lives.
Killing the wrongdoer.
You are allowed to kill someone to
protect someone else from being killed.
That's the law of the pursuer.
That's the law of the pursuer. And
they're right about it. Let me finish so
you understand it. One who pursues his
fellow to kill him. They have the Hebrew
there for that which couldn't pronounce
any of those words. And after a male or
a betroth maiden, if someone's chasing a
female or a male
to rape them,
to stop them, you are allowed to kill
them.
You hear that?
But one who pursues an animal or
desecrates the Sabbath or commits
idolatry are not saved with their lives.
So those things you don't just go and be
willing to die for everything and
anything.
So you must not ignore another person's
safety. Where did they get that? They
got that from Leviticus 19:16. I want to
turn to some of you are going to be
questioning me about this later. I hope
you go and look it up. Leviticus 19:16.
Let me read the part that applies. But
just don't just stand by. This is the u
message. Don't just stand by when your
neighbor's life is in danger. I am God.
So what that means is if you know
someone's about to rape or kill or abuse
somebody, it is your duty to step in and
stop it however you can. It's your duty.
You don't do that, you have sinned.
You're basically almost equally guilty
as the person doing it. You must step
in. Let me give you an example and this
has happened to me. I've known child
abusers. Okay? I've known child abusers
that you able to keep it a secret.
And I've always felt it was my duty to
make sure the people that need to know.
That means I have made people so mad
about that that they will never talk to
me again. Arley, there I've had some
people that didn't talk to me again for
20 years.
Okay.
I don't care because if it's a child
abuser, we've got to stop it. Okay? got
to stop it. I don't care who it hurts.
If you're one out there, find out you're
a child abuser, I'm going to expose you.
&gt;&gt; Okay? I'm not kidding. I find out, I'm
going to expose you. Amen. Dwight going
to expose them. They're going to the
appropriate people will know. And every
time we've ever had a child abuser in
this church, and we've had some, they
were known. We let that be known. the
appropriate people kn needed to know so
we could watch them like a hawk.
I'm not sure if we got one right now.
I'm not looking around. Don't look too
close.
You must not I'm serious about that. You
must not hide yourself when they need
you. That's part of this law of the
pursuer. I'm not through with the law of
the pursuer. I'm trying to build the
case that they built from the law
Deuteronomy. So you want to turn and
look at this passage because this is a
part of the argument that they made with
all the scriptures just like you and I
do. We make arguments about scriptures,
right? We build cases with multiple
scriptures, right? They do the same
thing with the Old Testament.
Deuteronomy 22:es 1 and 2. I'm going to
do the New King James here. Verse one,
you shall not see your brother's ox or
his sheep going astray and hide yourself
from them.
You can't act like you didn't see them.
You shall certainly bring them back to
your brother. You cannot disengage. You
are all you saw something, you got to do
something. You saw something, you have
to do something. That's what he's
saying. And they understand that. Verse
two. And if your brother is not near you
or if you do not know him. So wait a
second. What if I don't know this guy?
You saw something. You got to do
something.
You hear that? Even if you don't know
who in the world this person is,
so your neighbor down the street from
you, you see something, do something.
Amen. Call the police. Go over there,
rescue him yourself. But you have got to
do something. You don't have a choice
about it. If you do not know him, then
you shall bring it to your house. This
is just a lost animal. And it shall
remain with you until your uh brother
seeks it. then you shall restore to him.
I think the only time you get out of
that if it's a cat, but No, I'm just
kidding. I was just kidding. I'm just
trying to be funny. That's not funny. I
guess
that's the law. Wait, we're not through.
We're not through with the law of the
pursuer yet because all these scriptures
come together to get them to the point
that they believed you had to do this.
You must protect a neighbor from a
potential murderer or rapist. Exodus
21:14.
Exodus 21 verse14.
But if the murderer was premeditated,
cunningly plotted, then drag the killer
away. Now, what it's saying is the one
that that what he's saying is there are
situations where you ought to take them
to the authorities.
There's other situations you need to
step in right now.
Not wait
now. Strike now.
You know that's true, right? Guy, that
probably shouldn't be recorded and put
on the internet. But anyway, I I don't
want him to kill a bunch of people and
get away. But I that can't be. You can't
allow that. You can't just let him keep
going and keep shooting until he's
gotten another gun out and started. You
can't you got to do something, right?
Whatever you got to do to stop him. You
grab him, stop him. You just got to All
right, let me finish the scripture. So
it's Exodus 21:14. But the murderer was
premeditated, cunningly plotted, then
dragged the killer away, even if it's
from my altar to be put to death. What?
Even at his altar, that sacred place,
even in the middle of worship. There's
the point. So what all that mean? Well,
I'm still I'm not finished with the
case. So we're talking about abuse. Even
the abuse of simple neglect and by the
way that is abuse.
I need to teach you something and I
would encourage you to turn with me now
and go to Exodus 21 10 and 11. I do not
know why everybody wants to talk about
marriage, divorce and remarage and does
not read Exodus 21. If you don't read
Exodus 21 in the subject of marriage,
divorce and remarage, you haven't
studied the subject. If you don't read
Deuteronomy 24, you haven't studied the
subject. If you don't read Malachi on
this subject in chapter 2, you you
haven't studied the subject. You think
you've studied the subject. You have not
studied the subject yet. Let me deal
with this because this is the case of
the abuse by neglect.
So even the abuse of simple neglect is
covered in the law of a slave girl sold
into slavery to pay off a family debt
or one taken as a result of war
to pay back for the debt of the war.
Then she's married to a young man, son
of the man who owns her. And then this
young man in this text decides to take a
second wife, which under the Old
Testament was acceptable. We can't do
that now. I'm grateful for that.
Then he takes a second wife who can't
handle the one of God. Why would I want
a second one? Then he takes a second
wife.
She can leave him and she's married.
She's a slave girl
and she's there to pay off a debt. She
has almost no rights. But listen to me.
If he abuses her by neglect, she can
walk out the door.
Have you read this passage?
Look what he says. Verse 10. If he
marries another woman, she retains all
of her full rights. Listen to me,
ladies. You have rights.
There are three rights that every woman
has and there are three rights that
every man has that's married. And if
your mate is not fulfilling one of these
three, you shouldn't put up with it. Are
you listening to me? This is biblical. I
didn't make this stuff up. If it's true
that a slave girl didn't, you have to
give her these three rights. I'm telling
you of a free woman, you definitely have
these three rights. And the Jews taught
that. And they taught it in this
subject. Listen to what it says. If he
marries another woman, she retains all
her full rights to meals. He can't
neglect her and cut her meals.
Clothing, he can't neglect her and cut
back on his clothing.
And marital relations can't cut back on
his sex. And listen to me, ladies,
because you're the you're the number one
culprit on cutting back on the sex.
There are men who cut back on it. And
men, if you're one of them, you need to
hear me. You do not have that right.
You do not have that right.
You are sinning against your
relationship in a serious way in this
text. And if you've done it, you need to
repent to the Lord. Listen to me. You
can't do that. If either of those
happen, verse 11, if he won't do any of
these three things for her, she goes
free for nothing. Not only does the debt
is canceled, the marriage is canceled,
she walks out free. Now, have you heard
that talk? So, that means these three
responsibilities are yours if you're
married. You don't get to cut them
unless it's by agreement. That's what 1
Corinthians 7 says, right? Can be by
agreement. If you agree for a time, but
only for a time.
John 1 verse 14. The word
would not say the word was wrong. The
word was made flesh and dwelt among us
and we beheld his glory. The glory as of
the only begotten of the father. Let me
tell you what the word would never say.
The word would not say that the word was
wrong. That's the Old Testament. And you
say, "Well, it's the Old Testament." But
it wasn't wrong.
It wasn't wrong.
is telling the truth. All right. So,
I've already said something now.
Probably will get somebody mad at me.
Good. What if human limitation is not a
failure, but a design and not a design
flaw, but a design? That's a good
question. Grief. How do we deal with it?
Good question. Domestic abuse and a
spouse's obligation to an abusive
partner. No, you do not have to stay and
let him kill you or her kill you. And by
the way, we've had that, too. We've had
men that had to flee because the woman
wanted to kill them. And and I've
advised quite a few people actually to
run.
And I know that won't make some of you
happy, but it is the truth.
Is that not true?
Is it much easier to ask a question? I
think it probably is than it is to
answer a question. But I think it's also
easier to answer an irrational question
than it is to answer a rational serious
question. If you were off to Mars and
could take one luxury item, what would
it be? Personally, I would take the
Earth. If you invented a holiday,
what would it be? And what would you
call it? I'd call it Sunday. If you came
in and found a penguin in your freezer,
what would you do? I I don't know. I
don't know what I'd do with that. There
are some silly questions and there are
some hard questions and you need to look
deeper than the superficial because it's
so easy to give a hard answer to a hard
situation and then to look down on
somebody and you've never been through
it. So be careful.
Be careful.
So Stephen Curtis Chapman, do anybody
remember him?
He's one of the best known singer
songwriters out there or has been. He
did the great adventure and for the sake
of the call and his eyes and Randy
Alorn, the guy that wrote the heaven
book, y'all know who I'm talking about.
Randy Alorn back in 2008 wrote about uh
he had an article called How could a
good God allow evil and suffering?
That's a really good question, right?
Nobody's asked that question this time
around, but it's a really good question
and it's something to sink your teeth
into. Here's what he wrote about Stephen
Curtis Chapman. Something you may not
have known about him. Stephen Curtis
Chapman,
his five-year-old adopted daughter, Mary
Sue, died when her teenage brother
accidentally ran over her as he backed
the family car out of their driveway.
At the time the accident occurred, the
family was celebrating the engagement of
the oldest daughter, Emily Chapman, and
were just hours away from a graduation
party marking Caleb Chapman's completion
of high school. Now, they were preparing
to bury a child who blew out five
candles on a birthday cake less than 10
days before. Mary Sue had just graduated
from church preschool.
How could a good God allow evil and
suffering?
I think there are some really hard and
serious questions out there.
And honestly,
I don't always have a good answer, but I
do know that the hardest question might
be, are you ready to meet Jesus?
And that's the most important question
you've got that always right in front of
you. It's always there. Are you ready?
If you came now, if you came tonight,
are you ready?
You better be. We'll give you an
opportunity to get there if you're not
there right now when we have this song.
You can come forward and we'll help you.
If you need to be baptized, we'll help
you do that or we'll pray for you. But
don't be afraid. We'll help you. Won't
you come while we stand? While we sing,
