So now this is not a true story but it
makes the point. A Christian arrived in
heaven
and met all the people of the Old
Testament and was so excited to get to
talk to them.
The first guy he met up with was with
Noah and he said what what was it like
on the ark? I I just can't imagine it.
Can you? I can't imagine that. Then he
ran into Joseph and he said, "Joseph,
what was it like to understand dreams
and be the second most powerful man in
in all the world at that time? What was
that like?"
Then he found Moses.
Says, "Moses, what was it like when the
sea parted? What was it like in the
wilderness wanderings?"
Then he saw David. What was it like when
you actually went toe-to-toe with the
biggest man with Goliath?
What was that like? Then he saw Solomon.
He said, "What was it like to have such
great wisdom and people come from
everywhere just to hear how you
thought?"
What was it like? He ran into Daniel
when he said, "What was it like when you
faced off with the lions? What was that
like? And what was interesting was not
those questions because you can just
imagine yourself asking those kind of
questions when you get to heaven. What
was interesting was the question that
came back to him each time because he
was a Christian from the New Testament.
And every one of them asked,
"What was it like to have the Holy
Spirit living in your heart?
What was it like to have God living
within you?
Frederick Nichi said, "Those who hear
not the music think the dancer is mad."
Imagine if you see a bunch of people
dancing and you didn't know what dancing
was and you didn't hear the music.
They're all going. You're like,
"Something's wrong in there."
That's what it's like to some degree
when you don't understand people's
motives or their actions when they're
being stirred.
A mother
knows what it's like
to have a little person inside of them.
I don't know. That just sounds bizarre
to me. I didn't go down that path. And
it just it just sounds kind of strange
that a person, a little baby.
And I think for a mother, it must be
overwhelming and transformative. And I
think it does. Look, just some of those
thoughts. Look at there. At first, it
maybe it's just a feeling of
butterflies. I don't know. Never been
pregnant before, so I don't know. But
I'm trying to imagine what it must be
like when suddenly something's going on
in there and then as that person grows
and you feel oh a movement and I've felt
it from the outside this knee rolling
across the belly or whatever it was you
know I've seen that you see this knot
roll across the belly I've seen that but
I can't imagine what it must be like
actually having a person inside me
kicking and nudging ing and later the
discomfort and the pressure and the
can't breathe. I can't imagine what that
was like emotionally. It must have been
exhilarating. It must have been
magnificent, astounding as this person
grows within you.
Maybe that's a message to us about the
spirit.
Maybe God's trying to give you a little
message about that mothers and the rest
of us.
AB
Simpson died back in 1919,
but in 1890 he wrote a larger than
Christian life. And he wrote these
words.
Being filled with the Holy Spirit is a
distinct and profound experience of
being filled with a divine person.
The central truth of the Christian life
is a relationship with a living person,
not a set of abstract ideas or spiritual
influences.
This distinguishes this experience from
human systems of philosophy and religion
which deal with intellectual truths,
moral conditions or external actions.
This experience of being filled with a
person is strange and striking and
fundamentally different from all other
teachings. The Holy Spirit is not just a
blessing, a sensation or a set of ideas.
He went on to write, once it was the
blessing, now it is the Lord. Once it
was the feeling, now it is his word.
Once his gift I wanted, now the giver
own. Once I sought for healing, now
himself
alone.
The Holy Spirit living within us. God's
spirit once dwelt in the temple. Not
just in a symbolic way, but in a
spiritual truth. He dwelt in the temple.
Psalm 111:4, "The Lord is in his holy
temple." That's a truth, spiritual
truth. I know the Lord lives everywhere,
but the Lord especially spiritually
dwelt within his temple. Psalm 68:17,
"The Lord is among them as in Sinai and
in the holy place." Yes, in a special
way. Psalm 95:2, let us come before his
presence with thanksgiving. It didn't
mean that symbolically.
Psalm 100 verse two, come before his
presence with singing.
Jonah 2:7, my prayer went up to you into
your holy temple. He really is also in
heaven in a special way. I know he's
omnipresent, but he was in the temple in
a special way. And he was in the holy
temple in heaven as he is today in a
special way. Michael 1 verse two, let
the Lord God be a witness from his holy
temple. In other words, from there,
watch us.
And then of course, Habach 2:20, the
Lord is in his holy temple. We have sung
that says those very words.
Now we being part of the New Testament
are familiar with the New Testament
promise of the indwelling of the Holy
Spirit. A lot of people misunderstand
that the promise they think the promise
was only salvation.
Promise was salvation absolutely to be
forgiven. Absolutely. Why was that
significant? So that the spirit could
dwell within a sanctified purified
temple. That's the point. The point
wasn't just the salvation. The point was
to be a vessel
that was sanctified, ready for the Holy
Spirit. Let me just read a couple of
those scriptures. You can see them up
there. Acts 1 and verse4, wait for the
promise. And then he begins to discuss
it in chapter 2. Acts 2:33, receive he
they receive from the pro father the
promise of the Holy Spirit. Do you pick
up on what their promise really was? It
wasn't just being saved and being
forgiven. In Acts 2:38 and 39, you shall
receive the gift of the Holy Spirit.
Verse 39, for the promise is to you and
to your children and all that are far
off and even as many as the Lord our God
shall call. So don't look at them like
that was for them. And it's not for us
now. it is for all to receive the
promise of salvation and then the gift
of the spirit within. So I want to look
at three little simple lessons that's
just a preamble to what we're really
looking at today. Three doctrines that
assure us not only that um there is a
temple of the spirit but leads us maybe
to some greater ideas about ourselves
than maybe you've been thinking. Here we
go. Number one, the temple of the spirit
is Christ's body. That's right. That's
where it starts. That's the lesson we
must get first and foremost. The temple
of the Holy Spirit was Christ's body
first and foremost. John chapter 2:es
19- 21. I'll read maybe through 22. It
says, "Jesus answered and said to them,
destroy this temple." What's he talking
about? They thought they were t he was
talking about Solomon's temple.
Destroy this temple. Well, of course,
Solomon's temple was gone, but Herod's
temple, this temple, and in three days I
will raise it up. They thought they were
talking about that. Verse 20. Then the
Jews said, "It has taken 46 years to
build this temple, and will you raise it
in three days?" Verse 21, but he was
speaking of the temple of his body.
Therefore, when he had risen from the
dead, his disciples remembered that he
had said to this to them and they
believed the scriptures and the word
which Jesus has said. Now, there's much
about the resurrection of Jesus in the
scriptures. Uh he's raised in the
picture of Abraham receiving Isaac back
to life. He's raised and Jonah uh coming
out of the fish. There are many things
but here's the thing sometimes we miss
and that is Jesus was in a very special
way the temple of the Lord. You see his
body was the temple of the Holy Spirit.
Do you remember when he was baptized?
Do you remember what appeared and came
down?
It was the Holy Spirit in the form of a
dove. You remember that? Do you remember
John 3:35 that it said that Jesus had
the spirit without measure? Don't tell
me his body, he's already called it a
temple, but it was the temple of the
Holy Spirit that dwelt within him in a
very special way. And that's why we can
actually say that his body is the temple
of the Holy Spirit. And so when you take
the Lord's supper, I want you to think
about that just a second as you're
spiritually taking part in his body. And
not only that, but when you're a member
of the church and you're now a part of
his body, guess where the Holy Spirit
dwells?
In his body in a special way. And so
once he was crucified and raised, I'm
telling you, he has sanctified us all to
be meek to have the Holy Spirit dwelling
within us all. That's how we came to be
there. But the point is not your body or
our body of the church. Oh, no, no, no.
It's the point is Christ's body. You're
a part of that. And Christ's body, no
one can argue with that. The Holy Spirit
dwelt within him. Therefore, don't let
anyone tell you that the Holy Spirit
does not dwell within his body.
Second lesson,
the temple of the spirit is Christ's
building. And this is an important truth
and it's deeper maybe than you thought,
but I'm going to start in 1 Corinthians
chapter 3 if you want to turn and read
verses 9 through1 17. I didn't include
all that up there. It just didn't fit.
I'll start in verse 9. For we are God's
fellow workers. You are God's field. You
are God's building. He's not just using
a metaphor. He's saying something
serious here. Verse 10. According to the
grace of God, which was given to me as a
wise master builder, I have laid the
foundation, and another builds on it.
But let each one take heed how he builds
on it. For no other foundation can
anyone lay than that which is laid,
which is Christ Jesus. Now if we are the
building of God, you are the building
then Jesus Christ is a part of us and
it's the foundation of who we are. Let
me keep reading verse 12. Now if anyone
builds on the foundation with gold,
silver, precious stones, wood, hay,
straw, some of the stuff we build our
lives out of will not survive. Verse 13.
Each one's work, each one's work, each
one's work will become clear, for the
day will declare it, because it will be
revealed by fire, and the fire will test
each one's work of what sort it is.
Verse 14, if anyone's work which he has
built on it endures, he will receive a
reward. Verse 15. If anyone's work is
burned, he will suffer loss, but he
himself will be saved so as through
fire. Why? Because you are still founded
on Jesus, and you're still a part of the
body and the building of Christ. Verse
16, do you not know that you are the
temple of God? Don't question it. Now,
there's no such thing as a temple
without God in it. Otherwise, it's just
the temple. But you are the temple of
God. and that the spirit of God dwells
in you. If anyone defiles the temple of
God, now what's he talking about now?
Yeah, he's talking about your body, but
it's way bigger than that. Way bigger
than that. It's all of us together. And
it's also what we really stand upon. The
things that make us gold and precious
stones. If anyone defiles the temple of
God, God will destroy him. For the
temple of God is holy. which temple you
are.
Now, Matthew 16:18, let me remind you
now, why is he called it a building? Why
are we a building? Matthew 16:18, Jesus
said, "I will
build
my church."
So, what you're becoming is his work.
What you are is his work, but more.
Here's where it gets real interesting.
You see, we become a laborer together
with Christ and the Holy Spirit. Because
you see, we can build the church because
it is a building. It takes work. You
know, the temple in the Old Testament
took work. They took up collections just
to replace the skins. Imagine, I don't
know if y'all ever have any mo mold at
your house. Imagine living in a tent all
the time. How moldy it would get and how
you'd often have to replace the top and
replace the wood and replace this and
the smoke inside of it. Had to leave
soot on everything. How it start to
smell funny and they'd have to move it
to some fresh ground. You can imagine
the work that's involved. Listen to me.
That's you. And you are a building. And
as a building and as you know it at your
own house, you got to maintain it, don't
you? But more than that, it has to be
built up. It has to be worked on. Here's
where we get to be a laborer together
with Christ and the Holy Spirit because
our words to each other can encourage
one another and build each other up.
Love builds up. Pride, you know, puffs
up. But love, when we love each other,
we become a part of that. And so we
build, we help Jesus build the church.
We help build the temple of God today.
Now, think about that as an honor.
Imagine in the Old Testament what an
honor it was to be a part of building
that tabernacle, right? And then later
the building and how much money went in
that billions of dollars on today's
level. But you get to do something even
more precious. Whenever you after this
service is over, reach over and say,
"It's so good to see you, sister. It's
so good to see you, brother. God bless
you for being here." You get to be a
part of that. When you teach a class and
they learn a nugget there, ah, you got
to build up God's building which is the
temple of the Holy Spirit. Last little
thought I want to take you to is the
temple of the spirit is Christ blending.
This may be the most important lesson
that we need to get especially in our
culture today. It is Christ's blending.
And it's not the temple if there isn't a
blending.
You hear me?
It's not the temple of the Holy Spirit
if there isn't a blending. That's a
scary thing to me to think about, but I
want you to stay with me in just a
moment. If you'd like to turn and read,
the whole chapter would be great, but we
don't have time for that. Ephesians
chapter 2. I want to start in verse 11.
I whole thing's not up there. Just stay
with me. Verse 11, therefore remember
that you once Gentiles in the flesh,
that means nations, everybody but
Israel. That's who we come from, right?
We weren't Jews. I'm not from Jewish
descent, as far as I know. Okay? And you
aren't either, probably. Therefore,
remember that you once Gentiles in the
flesh who are called uncircumcision
by what is called the circumcision, made
in the flesh by hands. Verse 12, that at
that time you were without Christ. That
is true of my family. Being aliens from
the commonwealth of Israel, true of my
family, strangers from the covenant of
promise, true of my family, as far back
as I know, having no hope. There was no
reason to believe that we would be
saved. and without God in the world.
Verse 13, but now in Christ Jesus, you
who once were a far off have been
brought near by the blood of Christ. For
he himself is our peace, who has made
both, that is Jew and the rest of the
nations, both one, and having broken
down the middle wall of separation, no
longer Jew gentile. Verse 15, having
abolished in his flesh the enmity, that
is the law of commandments contained in
ordinances, so as to create in himself
one new man from the two, thus making
peace. God intended there to be a
blending. Verse 16, and that he might
reconcile them both to God in one body
through the cross. that one body being
Christ and therefore the church through
the cross thereby putting to death the
enmity. Verse 17. And he came and
preached peace to you, that is to us who
were a far off, and to those who were
near, that is the Jews. In verse 18, for
through him, we both have access to one
spirit to the father. What's he talking
about now? The one spirit that was
within him that's within the body of
Christ, we all have that same access.
The spirit that allows us to speak to
the father, uttering things when we
don't know what to say. Verse 19. Now
therefore, you are no longer strangers
and foreigners. We used to be who knows
what we were, but fellow citizens with
the saints and members of the household
of God, having been built on the
foundation of the apostles and prophets,
Jesus Christ himself being the chief
cornerstone. Verse 21, in whom the whole
building, we're back to that term again,
being joined together grows into a holy
temple in the Lord. Do you understand?
Don't say the Holy Spirit doesn't dwell
within his temple. Don't say God doesn't
live in his temple. Don't ever give into
that word only thing. That's not correct
to go there. It is the word because the
temple had the books in the Holy of
Holies. But God's spirit literally dwelt
in the temple and he literally dwells in
you as well in addition to the word.
Listen to what it says in verse 22. In
whom you also are being built together
for a dwelling place of God in the
spirit. How in the world can you
conclude that God doesn't live within
his people?
There's no way.
Here's the thing. I just came back from
Africa, as you well know. And the reason
I'm still awake is because we were up 6
hours before you were. It's 3:00 in the
afternoon for me. So, I'm doing good.
I'm sorry you're falling asleep. I'll
try to make this quick. So, Africa, one
of the great things that I want to bring
to you now is the world is a rainbow.
And I'm not talking about the gay thing.
I'm talking about the world is a
rainbow. There's people of every flavor
all over this world. Have you noticed?
Have you noticed that the people sitting
next to you aren't the size and shape
that you are? Aren't you grateful for
their sake?
Aren't you glad that we have so many
funnyl looking things around us? Oh, I
mean it that way. I mean just different
things around us, right? Everybody's
different. Some people want to put it on
color. Let me tell you, that's one of
them. That's not the end of the whole
thing. There's boys and girls and that
is way different than color. I mean,
that's just really weird. But more than
that, I don't know if you've noticed
this. I'm a tall man
up here.
But I'm a little on the short side. Some
of you are tall. Ain't that great? We
come to church, there's people like this
and people like this and right, it's all
kinds of shapes and sizes. That's a
great blending. And those are all the
temple of the Holy Spirit. But that's
not what I'm talking about.
When we get together,
those who are really the children of
God, those of you who don't do this, I'm
not sure you are.
But the real children of God say,
"God
answers prayer and sing."
And then you notice that our voices
blend together. Do you understand that
God was going for a blending? Not just
Jews,
but Jews and all the nations. And he
wants them to blend together.
Everybody. And I want to tell you
something, that's not the only blending.
Well, I was when we were over in Kemp
Park, I was singing I don't even
remember what language it was. I know we
sang a little bit in Zulu. No. Uh,
Vinda. We were singing Vinda. And if
they didn't have the words that were in
English, I would have known what in the
world I was saying. And half I know 90%
of the time I was mispronouncing it.
There's all kinds of blending going on.
You think the world is like you, but
that's what makes the world great. It
isn't.
It is the blending that God was going
for. He wanted a kingdom that embraced
every kind of human being there possibly
could be into one holy temple. A rock
over here shaped like this. A rock over
here shaped like that. Building a wall
all different shapes and sizes. And then
that beautiful music coming up.
Ephesians 5:18 and 19. Be filled with
the spirit how speaking to one another
in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs.
Singing with melody in your heart.
That's when the spirit is coming. I'm
telling you, anybody who thinks that
they don't need to sing and worship
needs to repent because that is
critical. And I know I hit the table and
I shouted and I know upsidy upset, but
folks, that's important.
You need to sing.
Quit sitting there looking dumb.
Sing. I meant that the other kind of
dumb. I'm sorry.
Sing. Amen. the blending. And I don't
care if you're in tune. Some people care
about that. I don't care. If you don't
believe that, sit next to me sometime. I
I don't I don't care. And I don't
believe the Lord cares too much about
it. I do believe he cares whether you
open your mouth. We are to blend. God is
building a holy temple. How could you
claim you are the temple of the Lord and
nothing comes out of you to worship?
I'm not sure what you are and I'm sorry
if that's offending you, but it's time
you engaged. Amen. And actually were
filled with the spirit of God. Amen.
Amen. Walls,
I think I heard him. Okay.
Okay. I'm almost through. Thank you for
enduring that. I apologize if I upset
you.
Temple of the Holy Spirit is Christ
body,
Christ building,
and Christ blending.
The new birth gives you two figures to
describe this change. One is that it's
very decisive
that we cease from ever being the man I
used to be.
I'm not him anymore. Whatever I was,
it's gone.
Don't care about him either.
And then it's divine.
A baby can't birth itself. A baby
doesn't bring itself into the world.
A baby's brought in the world by powers
it has no control over.
That's the rebirth.
You can offer yourself up, but it's
God's work.
There's a brier that was growing in a
ditch and the gardener went and dug it
up and the brier said, "What's he
doing?" This is not a true story.
What's he doing? Does he not know that
I'm a worthless brier?
And the gardener took the
plant and put it in his garden with a
bunch of flowers.
And that brier says, "What a mistake.
He's planting me a thorn bush in the
middle of a bunch of beautiful flowers.
There's roses all around me. What is he
doing?" And then the gardener came one
day and cut a slit in that plant and he
grafted
a rose into it and it grew and it became
a beautiful flower.
The gardener says, and listen to me
people, your beauty is not due to what
came out of you but what I put into you.
God puts something in you.
It's a person.
It's real.
And he has an effect.
Moves around.
Changes everything about your life. You
may disown it. You may think it's not
true. I'm a big fan of Denel Washington.
Anybody know who Denel Washington is? Do
y'all remember when he was young how
good-looking he was? I mean, his
magazines about how good-looking he was.
I'm sorry. He's drooping now, just like
the rest of us. But he he was gorgeous.
I'm telling you, Denzel was he's a
good-looking fella. I mean, if I was a
girl,
but he's now 70 years old.
He's 70 years old and he's baptized
December the 21st, 2024. Last year, not
even a year.
is interviewed by Esquire magazine in
2024 about that. Listen to what he said.
And I don't care if you agree with him.
I don't even care if you believe he
believes the right thing. You need to
listen to what he said. This is pretty
good.
He said, "The biggest moment of my life
was when I was filled with the Holy
Spirit.
Things I said about God when I was a
little boy, just recited them in church
along with everybody else. I know now
God is real. God is love. God is the
only way. God is the true way. God
blesses. It's my job to lift God up, to
give him praise, to make sure that
anyone and everyone I speak to the rest
of my life understands that he is
responsible for me. And when you see me,
you see the best I could do with what
I've been given by my Lord and Savior.
And I don't care what anyone thinks
about.
Maybe you could begin to catch that
spirit. Right or wrong, I don't know
what he believes exactly. He does
believe in baptism and he does believe
in the Holy Spirit. I give him that
much. Here's what I do know. Matthew
23:26,
first cleanse the inside
that the outside may be clean also, and
only God can cleanse you on the inside.
You can take a bath, but only God can
cleanse you on the inside.
That's right. That's what Peter said.
Repent and be baptized every one of you
in the name of Jesus Christ for the
remission of your sins. Washes all those
sins away and you'll receive the gift of
the Holy Spirit. That's when it happens.
You've been cleansed on the inside.
Spirit comes to live within you. You
become the temple of the Holy Spirit in
every way we looked at today because
ultimately you become a part of Christ.
And Christ's body is the temple of the
Holy Spirit. And it's Christ building
that's the temple of the Holy Spirit.
And it's Christ blending that is the
temple of the Holy Spirit. I want to be
a part of that. Don't you? And if you
want to and you haven't become a part of
it, let's help you. You come forward in
just a moment when we stand to sing and
we will help you do that. Why don't you
come while we stand and while we
