The Bible repeats itself
without contradiction.
It doesn't do that just in some places.
It does it everywhere. You may have
noticed that Matthew tells the same
story as Mark and then Luke and then
John. Repetition
allows
refinement of our understanding. It's
not that it's a different message. It's
that we refine our understanding of what
we're reading. Just as when someone
tells you the story and someone else's a
witness tells you the story, you gain
understanding of the story. So it leads
to increased confidence. And by
repeatedly encouraging the same
material, we are more likely to retain
the truth. Thus, I'm preaching not once
but several times on the subject of
shephering. And by repeating repeating
concepts and ideas help us to grasp
concepts that might have been
complicated or in some way a little
beyond us at first, but it helps us to
understand our doctrine and to be more
effective and more efficient in it. Now
having understood that little bit and
talked about that just a second then you
should appreciate this idea that
whatever Paul taught Timothy
the same qualifications for an elder
should be represented by Paul and what
he taught Titus. That would only make
sense especially when you understand
that Paul said this in 1 Corinthians
chapter for uh 4 and verse 17. For this
reason I have sent Timothy to you who is
my beloved and faithful son in the Lord
who will remind you of my ways in Christ
as I teach everywhere in every church.
So whatever Paul taught one place, he
strove diligently to teach it every
place he taught. So whatever he meant to
teach Timothy, he was trying to teach
Titus. That's important to recognize. So
when you see what you think is a
difference, it must be that it is a
shading of the same truth that we all
need to understand. So whatever Paul
meant in 1 Timothy 3 and:4 having his
children in submission with all
reverence must be very similar to the
statement in Titus 1 and verse 6 having
faithful children not accused of
dissipation or insubordination. Now you
may not see it that way but Paul would
have seen it that way and he would have
understood that he was trying to say
basically the same thing in both
passages. So the two passages intersect
more than they intersect. They teach the
same doctrine. Now most conclude from
that teaching and this the reason I'm
going there. Most tend to conclude from
that teaching that all the children of
an elder must be baptized and faithful
members. In fact, that's been the
conclusive thing by most people
throughout history going all the way
back to the Catholic Church. The
Catholic Council of Carthage in 393
wrote this. Bishops, elders, and deacons
shall not be ordained to office before
they have made all in their own
household members of the church. That's
an interesting concept. Seir Thomas
Moore in agreement to some degree with
that in the 1500s said he controls his
family with the same easy hand. No
tragedies, no quarrels. If a dispute
begins, it is promptly settled. His
whole house breathes happiness and no
one enters who is not the better for the
visit. But I have to tell you, we are
Catholic. never been Catholic. I'm not
even a Protestant. I'm an independent
believer in the kingdom of God. So the
Catholic doctrine is not our law and
it's not what we hold to. It would be
wonderful if what it was suggested there
that every single solitary child of an
elder be a faithful baptized believer.
There are a couple of problems with
making that too much of a stickler and
you may not have thought it through.
They didn't have birth control back in
the day. So children were born right up
until the time that women could not have
children,
right? So if a man is 40some, 50some, he
would likely have little bitty children
still in his house that hadn't reached
the age of accountability yet. And
therefore, how can you make all the
children in such a case have to be
baptized members? That's a problem,
right? And because this wide range of
ages, it is likely that some of his
children, if he's in his 50s or 60s, are
pushing up to around 40. Moved away,
gone away. They rarely see them. to make
an issue about how faithful they must
have to be at a distance that he would
have no way of having an influence on
creates a problem for you if that's
going to be your insistence. So, you
must think that through. You think
through the two passages I've just
pointed to. And apparently Paul meant
the same thing. And it may not be what
we've concluded, but you should be
diligent in reading those passages and
make your own choices. You understand me
now? That's why I bring that up. It
needs to be thought through and you
guess what? You're the one that's got to
think through it because you're the one
making the nomination. You say, "Well, I
want to know exactly." Well, I'm not
going to give you that. Sorry about that
one. But I'm giving you everything
that's true on that subject. And think
about it. So, while seeking nominations
to the eldership where all the children
are baptized and faithful, that would be
wonderful. And I hope that is what
happens. However, uh to be so rigid
about it, uh it may mean that no one is
ever really totally qualified in your
mind and so you could be too tight. On
the other hand, you could be too loose
and everybody's qualified. But you have
to prayerfully consider that and walk
through that passage. Okay? So I'm
saying all that to always preamble, but
that's not what the lesson's about. Here
we go. Number one,
a shephering elders mandated qualities
or how he must pass. And by that I mean
whether you know it, you like it or not,
a man must pass inspection.
You cannot be an elder without passing
inspection. Yes, we must judge him. We
have to. We have no other choice. If you
have qualifications, they have to be
looked at. Titus 1 and verse 5 says,
"For this reason I left you," that is
Titus and Creek that you should sit in
order the things that are lacking and
appoint elders in every city as I
commanded you. So, it's a commandment to
those of us in the position that I'm in
to make sure this happens. Okay? I would
be negligent if I didn't make sure we do
this. Acts 14 23. So when they had
appointed elders in every city and
prayed with fasting, they commanded them
commended them to the Lord in whom they
had believed. Now the word appointed
there means to vote by stretching out
the hand to a point. You're actually
going to get a chance to vote later in
this process. So that is going to
happen. And by the way, we're going to
study that subject in more detail. One
of the lessons coming up and I've
learned a few things on this subject.
So, I'm going to teach you what I
understand, what the Bible teaches about
that whole subject. You might be
surprised because some have never
studied it, and I've never studied it as
deep as I've just got through. So, I'm
coming out of the rabbit hole this
morning. Acts 6:es 2 and three says,
"Then the 12 summoned the multitude of
disciples and said, it's not desirable
that we should leave the word of God and
serve tables." Verse three, therefore,
brethren, seek out from among you, which
is what we're asking you to do. seek out
from among you seven men of good
reputation full of the Holy Spirit and
wisdom whom we may appoint over this
business. Now that's basically what's
going to happen in this process. These
were temporary deacons. This is not an
eldership being discussed there but it
is discussing how their protocols were
used. In acts 15 22 it says then it
pleased the apostles and elders with the
whole church to send chosen men of their
own company. how they chose them. We'll
be discussing that to Antioch with Paul
and Barnabas, namely Judas, who was also
named Barcabus and Silas leading men
among the brethren. And then in 2
Corinthians chapter 8 and verse four uh
19 is a very interesting passage. If you
like delving into stuff, I would lead
you to suggest you should study this
passage. I learned some things here
myself. And not only that, but who was
also chosen by the churches to travel
with us with this gift which is
administered by us to the glory of the
Lord himself and show your ready mind.
So, how did a bunch of churches choose
somebody? That's an interesting study.
We're going to get into that. So, you
might be surprised at what you might
learn there. My point of all of that is
to say you have to pass inspection and
the church gets to look at you and the
congregation gets to look at you and it
may be painful to you. We don't mean it
that way. That's not the point. It's
just that this is what has to happen.
Number two,
second lesson is a shephering elers's
manifest qualities or how he must be.
These are the things he must be. But
it's a kind of a short list here. Titus
1 6 and 7 says, "If a man is blameless,"
you know what that means? "The husband
of one wife," you know what that means?
"Having faithful children not accused of
dissipation or insubordination.
For a bishop, listen to these words,
must be blameless as a steward of God."
It doesn't say should be. Doesn't say be
nice if he is.
If he's going to be an elder, he must be
blameless. What does blameless mean? It
means not to be called to account,
unreprovable,
above repo, reproach,
above being accused of something
serious.
Not accused. Not accused in relationship
to his wife, nor accused in relationship
to his children, nor accused in
relationship to any bad thing he might
be guilty of that would bring shame.
Philippians 2 and verse 15 in the New
American Standard Version says this, so
that you will prove yourself to be
blameless. So this will explain the
meaning very clearly. Prove yourself to
be blameless and innocent. So people
will declare you innocent. Children of
God above reproach. So this is a generic
thing for all of us to be true for all
of us. Children of God above reproach in
the midst of a crooked and perverse
generation among whom you appear as
lights in the world. So literally we are
supposed to all be blameless. There
should be nothing that I could come to
you and tell you you better quit what
you're doing or you're going to be lost.
I shouldn't be able to do that with you.
I should not be able to say, "I'm
ashamed of your behavior." You should
not be able to do it to me. We should
all be blameless, but especially if
you're going to serve as an elder. John
MacArthur, who just passed away on the
14th of this month, uh scholar many of
you probably have read after he was 86
when he died. He was giving reasons why
an elder must be above reproach. Here
they are. I thought they were pretty
good. He says uh they are the special
targets of Satan.
That means he's going to assault be
assaulted with severe temptations
and he will bear the brunt of satanic's
strongest opposition.
So he needs to be ready. The second
thing he said is their fall has a
greater potential for harm. I know of
one situation where I heard that an
elder walked forward during communion
and refused to take it and got in front
of the microphone and said, "There's
nothing to any of this. I'm getting my
hat and going home and you should too."
Imagine the damage that that caused.
Imagine a man that was supposed to be
qualified to be an elder daring to do
such a thing. So yes, they have the
potential of creating greater harm.
Their greater knowledge of the truth and
their greater accountability for the
truth brings greater chastening for
their sin. James chapter 3 and verse
one. Don't be many of you teachers. You
may not understand this, but I get
criticized a little more than you do.
I assure you elders get criticized a
little more than the average member,
even more than you deacons. And one day,
if you deacons ever become an elder,
you'll quit thinking, man, I should
criticize the elders
like you think it's a good idea now. So,
and then their sins are more
hypocritical than others. You know, if
you up and you cheat somebody, don't get
drunk and you catch me Saturday night
and I'm drunk,
right?
Or I tell you, don't don't do drugs and
I'm laying with a strap around my arm
and a needle up there,
right? Be kind of bad, wouldn't it? Uh
so yeah, so that's true for elders,
folks. Uh any sin that they commit that
you're aware of becomes amplified.
So yes, so these qualities are manifest
to all who know the man and his family
and can be easily seen. If he's not a
onewoman man, you may know it and we may
not know it. If he's got a girlfriend on
the side that we don't know anything
about,
right? You must tell us if his kids
behave like heathens.
We need to know if we don't know it. So
this is why you must nominate those who
have no charge against them, no
accusation against them, not known for
some guilty sin against them. Else they
should not be one of our elders.
Number next. Oh wait, that's the same
one. No, it's not. Can't read this
morning. So are shephering elders
missing qualities? The way it says it
here is these are the knots.
These are the knots. It says in verse 7,
not self-willed,
not quick-tempered,
not given to whine, not violent, not
greedy for money. the five knots that we
must not ignore in nominating a man for
the elership. So, let no one nominate
one who is self-willed. What does that
word mean? Well, we won't talk about the
Greek word because I'll mispronounce it,
but what it means is pleasing himself.
RC Trench talks about it. It is about a
man who pleases himself and cares little
about how whether or not you're pleased
or not. RC Trench said, "Of such a man,
he is obstinately maintains his own
opinion or asserts his own rights while
he he's reckless of the rights and the
opinions and the interests of others. No
man who is self-willed and intolerant
could ever be fit for a church office."
Secondly, let no one nominate an angry
man. Now, this is not the normal word
for anger. There are two words in the
Greek for anger. The first word that you
think it is is the anger when someone
gets angry quickly and blazes up and
just as quickly he subsides. That's not
what this is saying. I doubt you'll find
anybody that doesn't occasionally get
that way. So that's not what the word
is. What the word here is is chronic
habitual anger. It's an interesting
word. Not the anger of the sudden blaze,
but the wrath which a man nurses to keep
it warm and stays mad at you. So no man
who nurses his anger is fit to be an
officer of the church. Let no one
nominate one drunken or whose tendency
is to get drunk. It says literally in
the Greek given to overindulgence to
wine. So it came to mean more than just
getting drunk. The word does mean that a
elder can never get drunk. That's
absolutely in the meaning. But it is
more than that. It came to mean sober in
all things. Therefore any over excess or
outrageous behavior is nullified. You
cannot have a man who and and one of the
ways it's actually used in the
scriptures is when they got stirred up
and they crucifi not scriptures but in
in extra biblical literature. One of the
ways that the Greeks used it is when the
people got so stirred up they decided to
crucify Jesus. They got this this was
their behavior. It was overthe-top. So
people who get over the top in their
behavior and is outrageous in their
actions. So no man who is outrageous or
who gets drunk is fit to be an officer
of the church. Then let no one nominate
one violent. The word violent here is
often just translated striker.
What does that mean? It's there's just
really no place for violence. Imagine
going into elders meeting to talk to
them about problem you got and a fight
breaks out. That wouldn't work out too
good. The apostolic cannon says this. We
order that the bishop who strikes an
erring believer should be deposed. He
should no longer be an elder. It can
mean more than the Greek Eden was used
more than just being violent by hitting
someone. It also came to mean that if
you were so ugly with your words that
you used words that sounded violent, it
covered that as well. And so a person
can be so violent in their words that
they scare people. So no man who resorts
to violence is fit to be an officer of
the church. Finally, the fifth thing in
this list in that Titus passage is let
no one nominate one who is greedy. The
Greek word here means a man who does not
care how he makes money so long as he
makes money.
The cretins considered material gain far
above
honesty and honor. As long as you make
the money, it doesn't matter how you
make the money. Well, that's exactly
what he's forbidding here. That kind of
greed cannot be true of anybody who
would ever be an elder or an officer of
the church. So these qualities must be
missing from the character of any man
that we would ever consider to be
appointed or nominated to a shephering
role or any other church office. So
there we have it. So now the last point
we want to look at is the shephering
elders measured and there's a reason I
use the word measured here. measured
qualities or how he must have. There are
things he must have but these things
that he must have can vary
and your evaluation of these things can
vary and a person two men who are both
elders can have different amounts of
each of these things. So we want to look
at those seven things that are mentioned
here. But let me read the passage first.
Titus 1:8, but hospitable, a lover of
what is good, sober-minded, just, holy,
self-controlled, holding fast the
faithful word, as he has been taught,
that he may be able by sound doctrine
both to exhort and convict those who
contradict. So these seven qualities,
let's walk through them quickly. You
should nominate a man who is hospitable.
The literal meaning of that is a lover
of strangers. He doesn't just talk to
his buds. Nominate a man who is loving.
The word here is a lover of good things
or a lover of good people. He loves
both. Nominate a man who is sober.
That's a soundminded man in this text.
The primary meaning is not about being
drunk. It's about being sound minded. Uh
sound minded or sober minded man and
prudent whose thoughts are saving
thoughts. They would save people.
Nominate a man who is just. Just, we
probably all know what that is. We know
what justice is. It's giving what is
due. It's giving the respect to others
that is due. That's all just. Nominate a
man who is holy. The word hoey means
pious. A man who reverences the
fundamental decencies of life and will
be that to all. And then nominate a man
who is self-controlled. The Greek word
here is a man who has achieved complete
selfmastery.
That sounds like a tall order to me, but
that's what it means literally in the
Greek. Nominate a man who is able to
faithfully teach and correct people.
That means teach them better. They've
done literally the Greek word here is an
interesting word. It means to rebuke a
man in such a way. This is what he's got
to be able to do. You have to be able to
rebuke a man in such a way that he the
man that you're rebuking is compelled to
admit the error of his way.
Deosan says of this word he says and of
the man he has to be a man unanswerably
demonstrates he unanswerably
demonstrates the truth of the things
that he's just said. He needs to be so
able to explain it that you almost can't
deny it. Aristotle said it of this way.
He said it means to prove that things
cannot be otherwise than as we have
stated them. It has to be that way. So
it's someone who can really do a good
job there. So speaking in such a way, a
man sees the error of his way and
accepts the truth which is essential in
a church that a man be able to be
changed. But it's essential that
somebody be able to do that. So these
qualities must be present in varying
measures. So since there's no two people
exactly alike, to assume that we're all
at exactly the same level on all those
things would be a bridge too far. But
the idea that those qualities exist to
some degree in each of the men that
would be put forth, absolutely there
must be at least some degree of all of
those present if you are going to
nominate him. So this is the lesson
that's what we've looked at. Mandated
qualities are how he must pass. He has
to pass must or we have to look at him.
We have to evaluate him. He must
manifest qualities on how he must be. He
must be blameless. That's not an option.
You and I should be blameless. He must
be blameless. And as a result, he must
not only be blameless, he must be
missing qualities or how he must not be.
There are things that should never be
said about him. And then he must be
measured in some of these qualities. He
must have some things that there could
be some variation within. So nominees,
if you're out there, be warned.
We need to take all this very seriously.
This is not a kids game.
We're not doing something here because
we think it's going to look cute. And
you shouldn't put a name down just
because you thought of it. You need to
talk to every single person you intend
to nominate. Find out if they're willing
to do it. Everybody. This is not
something you don't just put. Don't just
get your paper out and start writing
names.
That's not responsible and it's not
serious-minded.
That means there needs to be about
several hundred conversations in here.
Amen.
&gt;&gt; Amen. So you nominees be warned. You may
not receive the respect you're expecting
as an elder. If you become an elder and
you think, "Oh, everybody's going to
respect me and that's why I want that
position." You need to be warned right
now. That ain't my experience.
You think, "Oh, everybody respects
elders." Not what I've seen.
I've been in about 2,000 elders
meetings. I've been in more elders
meetings than any of our elders have
been at. And I assure you, I've seen
elders talked to like their dogs by
members of the church. I've seen them
caught in the hallways. And I'm not
talking about necessarily here. I'm
talking about over the course of my
career, 40some years, 50 years nearly. I
assure you, elders are not always
respected. I promise you, they are not
always respected. Many elders I have
seen have had to bite their tongue when
a younger person comes up to them and
tells them how dumb or how wrong they
are.
Churches are not known for respecting
their elders today in the world we live
in. And I got to be real honest. The
world we live in right now respects
elders less than ever I've seen.
I actually it used to be a little better
than it is now.
If you're going if you're thinking
you're going to go in everybody's going,
well, he's one of our elders and
everybody just loves him. You got
another thing coming.
Got another thing coming. At 26, an
industrial designer, Patricia Patricia
Moore, um, spent three years disguised
as an 85 year old woman. I don't know,
it sounds boring to me, but that's what
she did. But more than that, she she did
this. She put splints and stuff on
herself so she looked like she's
injured. And she went all around the
country dressed like that. She went to
116 cities across the United States of
America as a dressed up. Oh, and she had
the professional makeup on. I mean, she
really looked 85 years old. That was her
goal to look. And she did this for three
years. Okay. Sounds like that book,
Black Like Me. I don't know if you ever
heard that, but anyway, this sounds very
much like that. And so, she wore all
this these bandages and all uh trying to
display physical limitations. What was
her conclusion after three years? She
said one in 25 seniors,
senior adults experience abuse.
The majority being 75 years or older are
mistreated often. The Chicago Tribune
came across and wrote about this. She
says she noted the contrast between the
kindness and the compassion she got from
other senior adults
and the negative attitudes she
encountered from younger people. Younger
people, do you hear what I just said?
Younger people, you need to learn to
respect your elders. You ever heard
those terms? Respect
your elders. I know you think you know
everything.
And you probably have a brain that works
faster than the rest of people in the
room, but respect is a quality that you
need. So elder candidates,
don't go in this because everybody's
going to love me.
That's not the truth.
That's not the truth. Serve for the love
of the Lord,
not for the glory of the position,
not for name tags.
Serve in whatever life path you are on
for the love of Jesus.
By the way,
I don't know if you paid attention, but
you may have been so focused on the idea
of nominating people that you might
think going in this.
I want to remind you, you're being
inspected.
And all these qualities should be your
qualities.
This should be true of us all.
And somebody is watching.
And it's not a kid.
It's an old one.
Old.
He's seen it all.
Your excuses will not hold up. He's seen
it all. If you're not right with the
Lord, if something in this list doesn't
describe you, maybe you should make some
changes.
Maybe if you've never given your life to
the Lord, it's time. We want to be
available. Be serious about what we're
doing. God bless you.
