All right. So, I I talked a little bit
about this last Sunday, but I mean, it's
very very evident that we live in a
world where people are desperate for
hope. Uh they don't know where to find
it.
Uh if you look around you, social media,
look at your uh workplace, look at your
neighborhoods, maybe even look inside
your family, we see broken homes.
We see broken systems. We see broken
identities. And we see broken hearts.
And people, the world are looking for
answers. They're looking for peace.
But they're looking for it in all of the
wrong places. And many of us have looked
uh for those answers in the same places.
Whether it be money, uh whether it be
pleasure, whether it be politics, maybe
even another empty religion,
they're looking for answers in the wrong
places. But you see, the solution to the
chaos that's in the world has not
changed. Uh it's not a new policy. It's
not a new president. It's not a new
philosophy. It's not a new preacher.
The solution to the world's chaos is the
great commission.
The hope for the world is still the
gospel of Jesus Christ.
And it's the gospel of Jesus Christ
being carried faithfully
by his disciples into the entire world.
And so this is our mission. This is our
call because it's the only hope that the
world has.
You see, the world needs the church to
take the great commission seriously.
Our country needs the church to take the
great commission seriously. The state of
Florida needs the church to take the
great commission seriously. The
community around us needs the church to
take the great commission seriously. You
see, the the the world, the country,
Florida, Hillsboro County, the community
around us, they're not beyond reach.
They're just waiting for the disciples
of Jesus to take his commands seriously.
And so, lately, I've been doing a lot of
study on disciplehip. I've been doing a
lot of uh study and going to workshops
uh about disciplem. Uh and what I found
in my study and through these workshops
is that more uh commonly and and and
very often the church struggles with the
great commission.
It's not just Florida. It's all over. We
struggle with the great commission. And
there's a couple reasons why. uh that
the church struggles with the great
commission. I love the way the Holy
Spirit works. Keegan talked about a
couple of these this morning,
but the church struggles with the great
commission because the church struggles
with the great commands. Right? In
Matthew 20 uh Matthew 22, Jesus says to
love the Lord your God with all your
heart, all your soul, all your strength,
and all your mind. He says this is the
greatest commandment. And so that means
that we love what he loves.
We love holiness. We love righteousness.
We love justice. We love mercy.
And then he tells us the second greatest
commandment is to love your neighbor as
yourself.
And I wonder church, how are we to love
our neighbors as oursel? How are we to
love the lost when we struggle to love
one another?
How can we reach out to the community
around us effectively
when we can't work with the churches
around us?
Uh couple months ago, we went to uh
aquip. It used to be called spiritual
growth workshop. It was an amazing uh
event. There were several fantastic
keynote speakers. There were several
great uh Bible classes. I learned a ton.
Uh, but I'll tell you probably the
coolest thing that I saw while we were
there is that there were over 10
churches working together. The elders
from these churches were on the board of
this workshop to put this event on,
working in unison to equip people to go
out and preach the good news of Jesus.
And I've had an idea. Um, this is the
first time I've said it out loud, but I
think it would be awesome. and they do
this on the odd years in Orlando. I
think it would be awesome for Creekide
to do something like this on the even
years in Tampa. And so I started
thinking,
what type of networking and uh what type
of support would we need? There's no way
we could do it all on our own for it to
be as big uh as they have it out over
there in Orlando. There's over 1500 uh
people. There's probably 30 classes a
day. Uh there's no way that Creek Creek
Side could sustain this.
And I started thinking about our
connections with the churches around us
and how we possibly we've let our
differences
prevent us from being able to
effectively go out and to reach the
community around us.
Charles Spurgeon says uh that if sinners
be damned, let them leap to hell over
our dead bodies. And if they perish, let
them perish with our arms wrapped around
their knees, imploring them to stay.
Church, we've got to find a love for the
lost.
We have to find a
mission because we treat it like the
great suggestion. You see, this mission
is not a recommendation.
Uh it isn't optional for a disciple of
Jesus. Uh the mission is not reserved
for ministers, for elders, for uh Bible
class teachers. The mission is not just
for those who are talented, for those
who are extroverted, for those who feel
called to it. The great commission is
for every disciple of Jesus. And then
lastly, one of the things that we came
across and this is probably the most
important is that we struggle with the
great commission because we try to
accomplish it without the great power.
Uh we try to take on the mission of God
without the power of God.
Look at the early church throughout the
book of Acts. Look at Paul and all the
great things uh that they were able to
comp to accomplish for the kingdom. Do
you think they did that on their own
might?
Do you think they did that in their own
wisdom or their own skill or their own
strength? Absolutely not.
Uh in fact, in Luke chapter 24 and and
Acts chapter 1, Jesus tells them that
they should wait for power.
And so too often we find ourselves
relying on planning over prayer, uh,
programs over God's presence. We seek
strategies over surrender. We seek
structure over spirit.
And this leads to activities without
authority, crowds without conviction,
and movement without momentum. And so we
end up just being busy for Jesus instead
of becoming like Jesus. And so I'm
guilty of this, right? Uh even in I'm
going to be honest with you, even in
preparation for this lesson, uh I I
found myself uh relying on my own
wisdom, trying to draw on the stuff that
I've learned from these books and and
these workshops, and I was gaining no
traction
uh with this lesson. And it took about
about a week of felt like banging my
head up against the wall. And finally, I
said, "You know what? I'm going to
stop." I didn't feel like I had time to
stop, but I said, "I'm going to stop and
I'm going to pray. And I'm going to pray
that God uh would guide me in what he
wants me to say, that the Holy Spirit
would give me a word that Creekide
needed."
And I hope I hope that it helped because
as soon as I did that, after about two
to three days of waiting, I just felt
like light bulbs just started going off
in my head. Whoa, I'm actually making
progress on this. Wow, the I don't sound
like a
Yeah.
And so tonight, I want to point out
three truths from our text in Matthew
28. And I think they will help us to
begin uh or excuse me, to stop
struggling with the great commission.
Because if we can realize these things,
and I mean I mean fully realize them, we
talk about them, but I mean fully fully
realize them not just in our heads, but
deep down in our hearts, I think we can
start thriving in the mission of the
kingdom. And so firstly, we need to
realize the power of the king. Matthew
28:18 it says and Jesus came up and
spoke to them saying all authority has
been given to me in heaven and on earth.
So you see the great commission doesn't
start with a task.
It starts with a declaration of power.
Jesus is saying he has all authority on
heaven in heaven and on earth. This
means that as a disciple of Jesus, he
has all authority over my life.
If you go to Mark's account in Mark 16,
Jesus sends the disciples out saying,
"Go preach the gospel."
And I've got lessons that I'd really
love to dig deeper into this, but the
gospel, the yuangelion,
it means good news. In this in the
ancient world, it was used to uh
announce military victories. They would
use the good news to proclaim the
arrival of a new king. Uh they would use
the gospel message, the good news to
announce or celebrate royal birth or
national peace. And so the word gospel
that we're using that Jesus uses, it
carries a lot of weight because it has
ties to authority and to rule.
It has it has ties back to the Old
Testament. Um after battle, they would
pick the fastest person. So it would
obviously be me. Uh and they would have
them run back all the way to their town
to tell the good news of the victory.
said that by the way the person was
running, the way that they shuffled
their feet, uh they could tell from from
far out whether it was uh good news of a
victory or if it was, you know, bad news
of a defeat.
In Isaiah 52:7, uh it says, "How lovely
on the mountains are the feet of him who
brings the good news." Paul quotes this
in Romans 10 uh in verse, I believe 13,
he says, "Whoever calls on the name of
the Lord shall be saved." He goes on to
say, "How can they call if they don't
believe? And how can they believe if
they don't hear? And how can they hear
without a preacher? And how will they
preach if they're not sent?" How
beautiful are the feet of those who
preach the gospel of peace. In Luke
chapter 4, Jesus himself quotes Isaiah
uh chapter 61 where he indicates that he
is fulfilling uh the prophecy. He says,
"The Lord has anointed me to bring good
news, gospel, to the afflicted."
And so, right here at Matthew 28, we see
that Jesus has spent the last three
years preaching the gospel. He has been
preaching that the kingdom of God is at
hand. He has been preaching repentance
because God's reign is upon us. his
rule, his authority, his sovereignty is
upon us.
He was preaching that hope and healing
have arrived. And at the beginning of
the great commission, Jesus is
proclaiming that he is the king of that
kingdom.
And this truth is supported uh
throughout scripture. I wish I could
cite these, you know, from memory, but
I'm not here to to put on a show. uh
Colossians 1 16-1 17 tells us that all
things were created through him and for
him. He is before all things and in him
all things hold together. The Hebrew
writer in chapter 1 tells us that Jesus
was appointed the heir of all things and
upholds all things by the word of his
power. For Paul writes in Ephesians 1
that after his resurrection, God seated
Jesus at his right hand, far above all
rule and authority and power and
dominion above every name that is named
now and to come.
Philippians 2, Paul writes that God
highly exalted him, bestowed upon him a
name above every name. At that name,
every knee will bow and every tongue
will confess that Jesus Christ is Lord.
Church, there is power in the mighty
name of Jesus.
And in 1 Timothy chapter 6, Paul says
that the that Jesus is the blessed and
only sovereign. He is the king of kings
and he is the Lord of lords. You see,
Jesus Christ is king.
He is king of the Jews. He is king of
the Gentiles. He is king of the
Republicans. He is king of the
Democrats. Jesus Christ is king. Jesus
Christ is king of all races, all tribes,
all nations. He is the king of all
kings.
He is the king of God's kingdom. And
that means he is the king of you and I.
And there is no culture, there is no
government, there is no ideology that
can override his rule.
A and I'm going to be honest with you,
church. I've just come to realize this
in the last few years.
Christ is king.
He's my king.
And once you realize this, once you
really realize that Jesus is more than
friend. Oh, it's beautiful. What a
friend we have in Jesus. Jesus is more
than savior.
That Jesus is king of kings. He is the
lord of lords. And he is the king of
your life.
Your life changes.
You start doing what he asks you to do.
You no longer treat his commandments
as suggestions.
You follow what he has instructed
in his word.
I'll tell you church, the Lord has
blessed me in in my career. I've worked
hard. Uh, but I would not have gotten to
where I am now without his blessings.
Uh, and I am at a at a company that has
a phenomenal culture. Um, I'm making
more money than I've ever made in my
life. Uh, I have a fun team. I have fun
work. I enjoy what I'm doing.
But if Jesus asked me to give it up
today,
I'd walk away in a heartbeat.
I'd give it up.
If Jesus asked me to step away from
whatever I have just spent the last 10
to 12 years building
to preach the gospel,
I wouldn't think twice
because he's my king. And when Jesus is
king, that means that we can confidently
and boldly proclaim the gospel. We are
sent out under his authority.
We pronounce the good news of his
kingdom. We pronounce the good news of
his kingship. We pronounce the good news
of his life, his death, his burial, his
resurrection. And we pronounce the good
news of salvation that can only be found
in our king's name.
Because this is the only good news that
transforms lives.
It's the only good news that saves lost
souls
and is the only good news that can
change the world.
And so we need to realize the power of
the king. Secondly, we need to realize
the purpose of the call. And this is uh
this is where I really want to hammer
home. Picking up uh back in verse 18.
And Jesus came up and spoke to them
saying, "All authority has been given to
me in heaven and on earth. Go therefore
and make disciples of all the nations,
baptizing them in the name of the Father
and the Son and the Holy Spirit,
teaching them to observe all that I have
commanded you.
Excuse me. And this is where too often I
feel like the church goes off track.
we we may read Matthew 28 all the way to
the end of the chapter,
but if we were to read this the way that
at least in my experience, you I'm sure
you'll correct me if I'm wrong. Um, and
in my experience, if we were to read
this the way that the church executes
the great commission, we would read it
like this.
Jesus said, "Go make converts in your
community, baptizing them."
And then we move on to the book of Mark.
And I'm not downplaying the importance
of baptism. I believe that through
baptism, we get forgiveness of sins. We
receive the gift of the Holy Spirit. But
church, we've got to stop treating
baptism like the finish line.
It is the beginning to a lifetime of
walking with King Jesus.
See, the commission, the great
commission is about so much more than
church attendees.
It is about so much more than just
conversions.
We want to see hearts filled with Jesus.
We want to see lives transformed.
The commission is to make faithful,
obedient disciples of Christ.
We may help bring them to faith and then
we help walk with them in faith through
disciplem. We can help guide souls in
obedience uh to Christ. We can help but
one another grow in spiritual uh
maturity. It is through disciplem that
we become doers
of the word not merely hearers of the
word. It is through disciplem that we
become faithful lifelong followers. We
become people who are shaped into the
image of Jesus on a daily basis. The
goal is not just information.
The goal is transformation.
It's not just looking for quick
momentary decisions. It's looking for
deep, deep lifelong devotion.
And so this is why I believe that the
gospel message that we preach is so
important because the gospel message we
preach shapes their understanding. It
shapes their expectation. I have about
three sermons I could preach on this and
this alone. Um I'll try and keep it
quick tonight.
There's an old saying uh that says what
you win them with, you win them to.
A gospel that is cheapened to please
people will never have the power to
change people.
And I'm afraid we're setting people up
for failure because when we win them
with hype,
we've got to keep entertaining them.
When we win them with comfort,
they're going to expect convenience.
But if we win them with Christ, if we
win them with the gospel message of
Jesus Christ, we are going to win them
to a lifong process of picking up their
cross on a daily basis and walking with
Jesus. And so we must use the entirety
of the gospel message. Not just the love
of Christ, but the lordship of Christ,
not just forgiveness, but repentance and
obedience.
But if we are to preach this type of
message, if we are go to go out into Val
Rico and Lithia, Brandon, Seth, I know
we have people driving from Riverview.
If we were to go out and to preach this
message, it means that the way that we
operate has to change.
It changes how we view our time
because disciple making is not done in
an hour-long service on Sunday mornings.
It happens throughout our lives, right?
It happens around the dinner table. It
happens at the coffee shop. It happens
in hour-long phone conversations.
It happens through sharing each other's
struggles, sharing each other's burdens.
It changes how we view our uh
relationships. We stop viewing people as
projects to convert and we start viewing
them as brothers and sisters who were
made in the image of God.
And so our congregation truly becomes
this spiritual family
where we are walking daily side by side
towards sanctification.
It's I I I thought it's very interesting
that uh Jesus spent three years with 12
people.
We can't disciple everyone but that's
why it takes everyone to disciple.
It also changes what we celebrate. Uh we
begin celebrating spiritual maturity not
just attendance. Uh we start celebrating
repentance and obedience. It has been
years and I'm guilty of this too because
there are so many times that I should
have come down front to repent of my
sins in front of the entirety of the
congregation. I don't remember the last
time we've seen that.
We need to preach repentance, but we
need to live it out. Church,
it changes our metrics of success.
Instead of asking how many showed up,
how many were at church on Sunday
morning,
instead of asking how many were baptized
last year, we start asking how many are
growing in maturity, how many are
becoming equipped to go out and to make
other disciples.
We start asking if our own people are
becoming more and more like Jesus on a
daily basis.
And then it changes what we preach and
what we teach. We worry less about being
offensive. I saw somewhere, I mean, the
gospel is offensive in its nature.
It confronts people in their sins. The
gospel calls people to repentance. It
calls them to move themselves, remove
themselves from the throne of their own
lives, right? and to recognize and
realize Jesus in his correct place. So
the gospel is offensive.
We worry less about being offensive and
we more worry more about faithfully
teaching the word of God.
And so when we go out into our
communities, into uh the world with this
type of message preached with the
authority of King Jesus,
calling people to follow him, calling
people to submit to his lordship,
calling people to be transformed by his
holy spirit, we ourselves and the
community around us will start to become
a people
that look like Jesus, that start to
love, truly love like Jesus.
And that is how we start to see the
world change. And then lastly, uh we
need we need to realize the promises of
the savior. Uh I'm going to read it
again uh since I made the statement that
we don't always read it to the end. And
Jesus came up to uh up and spoke to them
saying, "All authority has been given to
me in heaven and on earth. Go therefore
and make disciples of all the nations,
baptizing them in the name of the Father
and the Son and the Holy Spirit,
teaching them to observe all that I
commanded you. And lo, I am with you
always, even to the end of the age.
I don't know if you guys, this has
happened to me a couple times. Have you
ever been thrown in to a project at
work? it's going terribly and for
whatever reason boss pulls your name out
of a hat and you get dropped into this
project, right? It's very critical. It's
highly important. Uh it is critical to
the success of the company.
He drops you into this project and he
walks away.
There's no guidance. Uh there's no
tools, there's no support.
You're basically left to figure it out
on your own. What I've seen is if the
results of that uh exercise for your
boss are good, he's going to take all
the credit. And if the results of that
exercise are bad,
well,
he did all he could to help you and it's
your fault.
But you see, Jesus is not that type of
leader. He's not that type of king. He
could have he could have told us to go
and figure it out.
I want you to go into all the world. and
I want you to make disciples unto my
name
and I'll see how you do. That's not what
Jesus does. He doesn't set us up for
failure. In fact, if you go to John 15,
uh he tells us ahead of time that
without him, we can do nothing.
So, he sends us out on this great
commission
and he sends us off with a promise. He
says, 'I am with you always even to the
end of age.' And I think the coolest
thing about this promise.
Uh this isn't a conditional promise.
If we are faithfully walking in
obedience to Jesus, he is with us when
we are on fire for the Lord.
He's also with us when we feel burned
out.
and I feel burned out far more often
than I do I feel on fire.
He's with us when people are responding
to the message.
And he's with us when people are
rejecting us. He's with us when we speak
out in boldness and encourage.
And he's with us even when we're too
scared to speak up at all. Jesus is
always with us. He has promised his
presence. But he also promises us a
helper. If you go back to John 14, Jesus
promises us the spirit of truth
uh who will in verse 16 abide with us
forever. The Holy Spirit helps us to
speak the word of God with boldness. We
see that in Acts chapter 4 helps us to
guide our decisions. Acts chapter 8,
Acts chapter 13, we were talking Luke
and I in Bible class this morning after
Bible class. Uh we were talking about
Romans 1 and we were talking about how
Paul writes multiple times throughout
the book of Romans that he wishes to
come but he's been hindered. And I
believe it's in Acts chapter 16 if you
go look says he he wanted to go but the
Holy Spirit prevented him.
In John chapter 16 it tells us that the
Holy Spirit is what convicts us convicts
us of sin.
And the conviction of sin is what leads
to a transformed people.
I love what John Sto says. He says,
"Without the Holy Spirit, Christian
disciplehip would be inconceivable, even
impossible. There can be no life without
the lifegiver, no understanding without
the spirit of truth, no fellowship
without the unity of the spirit, no
Christlikeness of character apart from
his fruit, and no effective witness
without his power. We're not alone in
this commission.
We have the presence of Christ through
his spirit. We have the presence of
Christ through his word. And then we
have the presence of Christ through his
body.
That's you and I.
Ephesians chapter 4, the body of Christ
taking on the mission of Christ.
And so that's the lesson, folks. uh if
we really really start to realize that
uh Jesus Christ is king,
we realize the power of his kingship, if
we realize the purpose of the call, it's
not to just dunk him in the water and
forget
forget about them at least
and we realize the promises of the
savior. I think and again I'm not just
preaching the creek side. I think the
church in general will start to thrive
in the great commission in its entirety
and the Lord's going to take care of the
rest. The Lord will take care of the
rest. Um, I don't have another slide,
but in the early 1900s, uh, Evan Roberts
was a 26-y old coal miner. And, uh, he
he felt a deep deep burden for a
spiritual renewal in Wales.
And so, he became a preacher. He became
a passionate preacher who was devoted to
prayer. uh he led these prayer meetings
that emphasized repentance, that
emphasized humility, that emphasized a
fresh outpouring of the Holy Spirit. And
he had a simple simple message. We've
got a simple message, but he had a
simple message uh that led thousands
to dedicating their lives uh to Jesus,
to turning from their sin and starting
to seek a deeper and more connected
relationship with Christ. Uh he wasn't
the only one, but he was a catalyst in
what they call the great Welsh uh
revival. You see across Wales uh that
crime started to decrease.
you see that pubs and bars uh were shut
down not because of policy uh but
because business dried up.
How amazing would it be and and I don't
wish anyone uh going going out of
business. How amazing would it be if in
Hillsboro County
if there was no need for liquor
licenses?
There was no need for a restaurant to
also have a bar
communities that were that were
reconciled. I thought this was funny, so
I threw it in there. Uh it says that
their mules uh they had to learn new
commands
uh because the coal miners stopped
cussing them and it's the only way they
they only knew how to respond to the
cussing. So they were a little less
productive there for for a little bit
till the mules smartened up.
And so there were many uh you know many
more involved in this uh great Welsh
revival. Uh but Evan Roberts is one of
the most notable and he said this about
revival and prayer. Uh he says that the
great revival will be preceded by great
prayer.
And so this is why with the impact
ministry,
this is why we've started with prayer.
We've started with fasting.
You see, sinful people are disconnected
from God.
Sinful people are overly connected to
flesh.
Prayer connects us to God.
Fasting disconnects us from our flesh.
Somebody gave me the idea. Um, if you
can't tell, I like to eat. Um, somebody
gave me the idea. They said, "When you
are fasting, every single time that you
get hungry, stop
and pray.
Redirect that hunger to God."
Whatever you're praying for, right?
Impact ministry, we're praying for the
church. We're praying for the community.
We're praying for courage and boldness
within ourselves. I stop and I pray
about that.
And so I believe that we can have this
type of revival in our community. I
believe we can have this type of revival
in our state. I believe we can have this
type of revival across our country. I
believe we can have this type of revival
across the world, but it's going to take
us praying for the mission of Christ.
That's the starting point. And then it's
going to take us faithful, obedient
disciples, carrying the gospel message
to those around us,
proclaiming the good news of Jesus,
proclaiming his kingship,
proclaiming
the kingdom of God.
And if we do that, if we really do that,
we can see our world and the world start
to change. And so, if you're here
tonight and you've not committed your
life uh to the king, we can help you. If
you need to repent of your sins, confess
the name of Jesus, be baptized, we'll do
that for you tonight. Water might be
cold. It'll take a few minutes. I've got
nowhere else to be.
