Lemony Snickickets, a series of
unfortunate events kind of makes you
think of this sort of thing. It was a
2004 uh what they call a dark comedy
adventure film. Uh and so basically it's
about Lemonise Snicketts trying to
investigate this. There was a uh in the
family of the B ball balders, I don't
know if I'm saying that right, a
14-year-old inventor Violet, a
12year-old
uh biblopile
brother Klouse, his their brother Claus,
and then a two-year-old sister Sunny.
The children had been orphaned because
they'd been wealthy and their home had
burned, their mansion had burned, and
they had been by the banker who would
not give them their inheritance until
the older Violet turned 18. Uh they were
left to Count Olaf, which in the movie
is Jim Carrey, which is hard to believe
when you see the movie. Doesn't look
like him at all. But the point is that
he was a nefarious actor who on top of
their death of their parents and the
loss of everything, they're being
controlled by this maniacal guy, being
treated badly and being belittled all
the time and made to do horrible things,
a series of unfortunate events. Kind of
reminds you of the story of Annie and
and it like in the story of Annie, there
is a recovery. things change. All these
negative, horrible things happening
eventually do change. It might remind
you of Job, how all these horrible
things happen, but eventually it turns
around. Maybe your life is reflective of
that. And if you give me just a minute,
I'm going to argue with myself just a
little bit here because this is a hard
topic. And uh allow me to uh if you will
self-argue
this concept of family curses. Um a
family curse refers to
bad behavior patterns and consequences
of those sins that seem to plague
certain family life.
uh these so-called curses tend to be
generational sins in everybody's mind
and traumas that keep reoccurring within
certain families and these negative
events until a family begins to feel
it's cursed. Family curses can be really
a heavy burden upon the family. Maybe
you've never seen that sort of thing and
praise God for that. But it can affect
the lives of them and all their loved
ones because they feel like they're in
this plight of absolute negative things
happening all the time. U there are some
examples of what is considered
family curses that you're familiar with.
We all know these things. There are
things called bad habits or addictions
and they can plague a family such as
alcoholism,
drug abuse or even sexual addictions.
And then of course there's mental
illnesses that can plague a family.
There can be depression, bipolar
disorders and schizophrenia that can
literally plague a family and almost
seem like they're inherited. And then
there are physical illnesses that are
actually tend to be inherited such as
heart disease, diabetes, hypertension,
or even cancer. And then there's poverty
that can seem to flow from one family
down generationally. a family history of
poverty, of never budgeting, of never
saving, of never learning how to handle
their money and losing it all over and
over again or gambling it away. Then
there are unhealthy relationships that
can seem to plague a family. A family
can have a history of divorce, one
generation after the other, everyone
getting divorced or incest in a family
or some kind of abuse, sexual abuse that
can be transferred generationally down
or violence. There are families that are
known for violence and they're literally
the police comes to their home on a
regular basis. Then there are literally
genetic factors that aren't just
imaginary, but they're real. Uh, and
there are even what's believed to be
predispositional
genetic factors such as certain
addictions that can be predispositional
and alcohol addictions can be easy. And
uh, because of that, it's one of the
reasons I am a total don't drink person
because of the alcohol in my family.
social factors
uh the impact of traumas and rebellion
and sin in a family can duplicate
itself. So that begins to look like a
family curse, doesn't it?
 And it may be
family curse, doesn't it?
 And it may be
family curse, doesn't it?
 And it may be
what's being discussed in the text that
we're in. That may not be exactly
everything that's being discussed in the
text we're in. But are there really
family curses? See, that there's the
question that you have to start asking
yourself. Is is this just all imaginary?
Are we we really seeing something that
is real? Is this even a biblical concept
or should I not even be talking about it
because it might make you think, "Oh,
that's what's going on in my family and
it might not be a healthy thing to do."
So, there are scripture that suggests
that there's no such thing as these
family curses that we tend to think. For
example, Deuteronomy 24:16 says,
"Fathers shall not be put to death for
their children, nor shall the children
be put to death for their fathers. A
person shall be put to death for his own
sin." So, you can't make the next
generation be punished for someone
else's sin. That's God's principle that
he doesn't think that way. Uh there's
also indications for no curse in 2 Kings
14:6. a person shall be put to death for
his own sin. So you you're judged for
what you do bad. That's it. And then
there's this statement in Ezekiel 18:20.
The soul who sins shall die. The son
shall not bear the guilt of the father,
nor the father bear the guilt of the
son. Those are all pretty much saying
about the same thing. And so basically
there seems to be this idea that just
because a father does something doesn't
mean the family is going to suffer for
it. Okay. And that seems to be God's
sense of justice even. But then there is
the suggestion in our text that you
could suffer for the sins of your
father. And this is Exodus 20:5. I'll
read it again. Visiting the iniquity,
that's the sin of the father on the
children to the third and the fourth
generation of those who hate me. So
there seems to be this repetition of a
particular sin which may reflect then
bad things that would happen to you
because the sin. It's not that you
suffer for your father's sin but you
tend to be influenced by your father's
sin or your mother's sin and you
duplicate it and therefore suffer for
the same sin that they suffered for.
That seems to be what that's talking
about. Then numbers 14:18 says a similar
thing when it says visiting the iniquity
or the sin of the fathers on the
children to the third and the fourth
generation. Then again in 2 Kings 17:41
their children and their children's
children have continued
doing as their fathers did even to this
day. So you see that so the the third
and fourth generation curse seems to be
that you tend to be like them and you
tend to do what they did. And if they
were in rebellion against God, then
you're now in rebellion against God. And
then down to the second, third, and even
four generations that we tend to
duplicate what we were taught in our
families to be like by just simply
watching them, observing them, and doing
like they did. That seems to be what's
being discussed. On the other hand, so
argue with myself just a little bit
here, there are blessings that seem to
be handed down, which would be the
lesson that we would go into in family
blessings. Deuteronomy 7:9, God keeps
covenants and mercy for a thousand
generations with those who love him. So
literally again, now the father is or
the mother is a righteous person and
they do good things. the children tend
to want to do the good things and then
their children and then their children
and then their children for a thousand
generations. It says that can go on. And
then of course there's the Isaiah 59 and
verse 21 passage. The one I've always
one of my favorite passages literally
for if you're in in the field I'm in
particularly it says my spirit who is
upon you and my words which are upon you
shall not depart from your mouth nor
from the mouth of your descendants nor
from the mouth of your descendants
descendants forever more. So that's a
nice thought that if you're really a
person who speaks the word of God and
tries to teach the word of God that then
they your children would tend to do that
and their children their children their
children until the Lord comes back and
that sounds pretty good too doesn't so
it's difficult but we want to look at
four three or four examples here of
literally uh curses that can follow in a
family. So the first one is the family
curse of the clerical family of Eli.
Something happened to Eli's family. In 1
Samuel, if you're turning with me, turn
to 1st Samuel chapter 3. We'll look at
verses 11-14.
It says this. 1st Samuel 3:11. Then the
Lord said to Samuel, "Behold, I will do
something in Israel at which both ears
of everyone who hear it will tingle. In
that day I will perform against Eli all
that I have spoken concerning his house.
That's the word to remember. From
beginning to end, his house. For I have
told him that I will judge his house
forever for the iniquity which he knows
because his sons themselves vile and he
did not restrain them. They made
themselves vow and he did not restrain
them. Verse 14. And therefore I've sworn
to the house of Eli that the iniquity of
Eli's house shall not shall not be
atoned for for sacrifice or offering
forever. There's no sacrifice you can
make to fix what you've done. This is
going to affect your house forever more.
Sounds like a curse, doesn't it? So the
clerical lineage, what happened to Levi?
Well, he died and his sons died. But
that's not all that happened. The
clerical or priestly lineage moved from
Eli's house to the house of Zadok.
Now that's found in first Kings 2 and
verse 23. But Abraham
Gerger says this and I believed this for
a very long time. I was glad to read
that he agreed. He said the Sadducees
that is Zadok in Mishnak or oral Torah
oral Torah pronunciation sect of Judaism
drew their name from Zadok the high
priest in the first temple and that the
leaders of the Sadducees were in fact
the sons of Zadok or as we know them
Sadducees.
So Eli and his priestly sons sinned. So
they did their own sin which led to
their deaths. They all died and a curse
on the clerical family that none of
their descendants would be allowed to
continue in the priestly line ending
their lineage and they were replaced by
another lineage of Zadok and the
Sadducees.
If family curses fall on a clerical
family like Eli,
then so to a religious family,
such a thing could fall.
That's an important little truth right
there. Number two, the family curse on
the royal family of Saul.
There was a curse that fell on the royal
family of Saul. Saul was king of Israel.
I'm now in 1st Samuel. Look at 1st
Samuel 15. Uh we won't read everything,
but verses 1- 28. It would be a good
reading for you. I'll read part of it at
least. I'll start in verse one. Samuel
also said to Saul, "The Lord sent me to
anoint you king over his people, over
Israel. Now therefore, hear the voice of
the word of the Lord. Thus the Lord said
of uh the Lord of hosts, I will punish
Amalecch for what he did to Israel, how
he ambushed him on the way when he came
up from Egypt. Now go and attack
Amalecch, and utterly destroy all that
they have, and do not spare them, but
kill both man and woman, infant and
nursing child, uh the ox and the sheep,
the camel, the donkey. Also, uh took a
Aag. In verse eight, it says they took
Aag, the king of the Amalachites, alive.
They did not kill him and utterly
destroyed all the people with the edge
of the sword. But verse 9 says, "But
Saul and the people spared Aag and the
best of the sheep, uh, the oxen, the
fatlings, lambs, and all that were good,
and was unwilling to utterly destroy
them. But everything despised and
worthless, they utterly destroyed." Now,
you pick up the family tree of Aag in
the guy that attacks them in Babylon in
the book of Esther, but we won't get
into that right now. Verse 17. So Samuel
said, "When you were little in your own
eyes, were you not head of the tribes of
Israel? And did not the Lord anoint you
king over Israel?" Verse 18, "Now the
Lord sent you on a mission and said, "Go
and utterly destroy the sinners, the
Amalachites, and fight against them
until they are consumed." Verse 19, "Why
then did you not obey the voice of the
Lord? Why did you swoop down on the
spoil and do evil in the sight of the
Lord?" Verse 20. And Saul said to
Samuel, "But I have obeyed the voice of
the Lord and gone on the omission on
which the Lord sent me and brought back
AG, king of uh Amalecch. I have utterly
destroyed them Malachites." Verse 21.
But the people took of the plunder sheep
and oxmen, the best of the things which
should have been utterly destroyed to
sacrifice the Lord your God and Gilgal.
They're the ones who did it. I didn't do
that. Verse 22. So Samuel said, "Has the
Lord as great delight in burnt offerings
and sacrifices as in obeying the voice
of the Lord? Is that what you really
think? It's all about worship and not
obeying the Lord. Behold, to obey is
better than sacrifice, and to heed than
the fat of rams. For rebellion is as the
sin of witchcraft, and stubbornness as
iniquity and idolatry. Because you have
rejected the word of the Lord, he also
has rejected you from being king." Now,
you remember he's only been king about a
year. and he reigned for 40 years, but
he's rejected in his second year to no
longer be king. What does that mean?
Verse 26. But Samuel said to Saul, "I
have not returned with you, for I will
not return with you, for you have
rejected the word of the Lord, and the
Lord has rejected you from being king
over Israel." And as Samuel turned
around to go away, Saul seized the edge
of his robe, and it tore. And Samuel
said to him, "The Lord has torn the
kingdom of Israel from you today and has
given it to a neighbor of yours who is
better than you." We all know who that
was. Even Jonathan was a good man, good
friend of David, but he and his father
were killed. That family line was ended.
They lost the royal lineage and they
were never allowed to be kings. His sons
nor any descendants of him. And to this
day, if Samuel had obeyed, guess who
Jesus would have descended from.
But the royal lineage moved from Saul's
house to David's house. 1st Samuel 13
and 14. And Samuel said to Saul, "You
have done foolishly. You have not kept
the commandment of the Lord your God,
which he commanded you. For now the Lord
would have established your kingdom over
Israel forever." Verse 14. But now your
kingdom shall not continue. The Lord has
sought for himself a man after his own
heart, that is David. And the Lord has
commanded him, that is David, to be
commander over his people because you
have not kept the what the Lord
commanded you. So Saul sinned and it led
to a curse on his royal family resulting
in his death and the ending of his
kingdom and his lineage and being
replaced by David. Here's the point. If
family curses do fall like that on royal
families like Saul,
so too a wealthy or a rich family, no
matter how much money you have,
don't trust that.
It won't fix it if you turn away from
him. The last example we're going to
look at is the family curse on the
original family of Adam. and you bear
this curse,
it's on you.
Genesis 3 17-19. Then to Adam he said,
because you have heeded the voice of
your wife and has eaten from the tree of
which I commanded you, saying, you shall
not eat of it. Cursed is the ground,
which by the way, the ground is still
cursed. Cursed is the ground for your
sakes and toil you shall eat of it. You
have to work for your living, right? All
the days of your life. That's still
true. Verse 18, but thorns and thistles,
that means things are going to gouge you
in this world. You ever get tired of
being gouged? You're going to be gouged
the rest of your life. Both thorns and
thistles, it shall bring forth for you,
and you shall eat the herb of the field.
Verse 19, in the sweat of your face, you
shall eat bread till you return to the
ground. That means you're going to die
and turn into dust or dirt or be buried
and worms will eat you. For out of it
you were taken. For your dust you are,
and to dust you shall return. The human
family of man is under that curse to
this day.
Adam sinned, and the family curse of
death passed upon his lineage,
but by woman according to Genesis 3:15,
Christ came. So that lineage of death
falls from man to man down the line, not
through the woman. Christ came and bore
the tree curse, the just for the unjust,
the just for the unjust, the just for
the unjust, the just for the unjust, the
just for the unjust.
That's what happened.
And we read in Galatians 3 13-14, Christ
has redeemed us. We've been redeemed,
but we haven't seen it yet. Romans 8
tells us it hasn't fallen upon our body
yet, but it says God Christ has redeemed
us from the curse of the law, having
become a curse for us. For it is
written, cursed is everyone who hangs on
a tree. That was Jesus. Verse 14, that
the blessing of Abraham might come upon
the Gentiles or all the nations in
Christ Jesus. That we might receive the
promise of spirit through faith. Is that
what happened? That's exactly what
happened. And so we now have the promise
of this, but it only comes at the
resurrection. Isaiah 53 and verse 5
says, "He was wounded for our
transgressions. He was bruised for our
iniquity. The chastisement for our peace
was upon him and by his stripes we are
healed." So the curse is removed in
Christ. So that tells me this that uh if
family curses fall on the original
family that God created called Adam
and he and are healed if he can heal
them. Then so even regular families like
you and me can be healed from these
recurring curses. So all curses can be
healed because the most important curse
was healed. So if you're a regular
repbate family full of sin,
you can be cured through Jesus.
So that's the lesson today. Basically,
uh the family curse, clerical family
curse of Eli proves that even a
religious family who goes to church can
be cursed in this world.
And even a royal family like Saul's
proves that a rich well-off family can
still be cursed.
And then the original family of Adam
proves that even a regular family like
you and me can be blessed and receive a
blessing out of the curse and can
overcome the curse. Now, some of you may
remember there was a movie back in 2003.
if you're old enough for that. Some of
you weren't born till after 2003, but
there was a movie called Holes. It was a
Disney movie back in 2003, and it's
about the Yelnant family who were under
a Yelant family curse. At least that's
what they believe. Uh Stanley Yelant is
wrongly accused of theft, and he ends up
going to a reform camp out in the middle
of nowhere where all they do is dig
holes. And apparently they're looking
for this treasure, but because he his
family is under this curse, uh his
father is still working on some kind of
a miracle resolution of how to get rid
of bad smells. Anyway, the he this
greatgrandfather had mistreated somebody
and this fortune teller had cursed them
supposedly. It's all a make believe
story. I'm don't get me wrong. I'm not
trying to tell you this is a real story.
But they believe that they were under
this curse. And then this gets broken
because they end up giving back the
treasure to the family that deserved it.
But the movie explores the idea of a
fate and family history and how that
even in that situation, perseverance
really matters. Doing the right thing
really matters. Which brings me back to
the point. Is there really a family
curse?
No,
you choose.
You choose every time. Who you want to
be, that's you. You are who you want to
be.
There it is. Don't blame anybody. Wasn't
my daddy. Wasn't my mama. Wasn't what
somebody did to me. It's me. Now, can I
create a problem for myself? Yeah. But
does the Bible promise we can break
free? Yes, it does. Deuteronomy 30 19
and 20 says, "I call heaven and earth as
witness today against you that I've set
before you life and death, blessing and
cursing. Therefore, choose life." You
get to choose that both you and your
descendants may live. You get to choose
today if you've been living down that
curse alley. Verse 20. That you may love
the Lord your God, and that you may obey
his voice, and that you may cling to
him, for he is your life, and the length
of your days, that you may dwell in the
land which the Lord swore to your
fathers, to Abraham, to Isaac, and
Jacob, to give them. So, do believers
have the power? Absolutely. In fact,
unbelievers have the power to choose. We
all have the right to choose. You can
break free of what you think your family
might be under some sinful curse. I
don't care what they've been doing,
what's fallen down on you and how it's
turned the wrong direction. You can turn
it the right direction. You learn from
your past. Don't keep repeating the
history of the family. If it's going
wrong, make different choices. Break the
cycle. Be aware of your own rules.
Consider your own actions may be the
reason you're going through what you're
going through. Recognize the curse
concept in that you are creating the
curse upon yourself potentially and
repent and confess that you've sinned.
You've done wrong. Turn away from that
and receive the possibility of not only
being forgiven. But if you would repent
of your sins, confess the name of
Christ, and be baptized, yes, you're
forgiven, but you could potentially turn
this around. And this generation in your
family tree could be the greatest
generation that's ever been. It is
strictly up to you to make the choice.
The idea that you could not turn this
that is to be thrown away.
But don't ignore it because you could
repeat it in your children or in your
family. God wants to bless your family.
He wants to give you all things and give
you the best of the best.
It's your choice. Would you receive him
today while we stand? While we sing.
