We are blessed tonight to be able to
have Trent Wheeler with us. Trent is
doing mission work in Panama if you're
not aware. And uh not only that, but he
used to work with his congregation many
years ago and he's been a member here
and blessed us in many different ways.
I'm looking forward to this because I
think he's actually solved the
Panamanian canal problem and other
issues. And so if you're just wondering
how to get in touch with important
people down there, I know he knows some
Chinese guys working along the canal.
So, u looking forward to the lesson.
Come up here train and give us
a Yeah. All I can say about the canal is
y'all need to stop talking about it
because all my friends are scared
they're going to kick us out of the
country. It's funny there there there's
kind of two thoughts about all the the
politics going back and forth. There's
those of us that, you know, that's just
in God's hands and we're not worried
about what's going on down here. And to
be honest, everything down there is
really, really stable and fine. And then
there's the folks that are terrified. Oh
no, oh no. They're going to pull my visa
and they're going to send me home and
they're going to do this and they're
going to do that. And uh it it's just
kind of humorous. Um it's a blessing to
be here tonight. It really really is. Uh
there's so many of you that have been
supportive of our efforts and our work
down there and we're truly thankful for
that. We know there's so many more that
are praying for us and what we're trying
to accomplish. And you know, you have a
you you go into something and you have a
plan and then you get there and you
realize God has a different plan. And uh
some of the things we hope and plan to
do maybe down the road we haven't done
yet. And some of the things that we
hadn't really expected have really come
to a surprise us. So, if you look at the
little panel up here on on the
board, most of those pictures were taken
around our house. And so, uh, we're
we're really blessed. We see all kinds
of wildlife, including the other day I
was moving block and picked up a boa
constrictor that was down in the block.
There was iguanas in the block. There
were bow constrictors in the block.
There were cane toads in the block. And
there there were uh geckos, which
geckos, you just can't get rid of the
geckos in your house, out of your house,
everywhere. They're geckos. So, most of
those pictures I took, with the
exception of the bottom left, that's a
kettzle. Uh we went hiking a few weeks
ago trying to see one of those because
they're up in the mountains without any
success. Uh the picture that has Panama
on it, that's Mount Vulcan. That's the
highest point in Panama. And that
picture was taken out the front window
of my house. And so that's that's when I
sit in my office and study, I get to
look at that. So I really really am
blessed.
Uh let make sure see if I got the right
Yeah, Panama is a country where people
are really really tied to their
traditions. Uh, a matter of fact, it's
been there was one Sunday that um back
in November, we had so much rain that
lots of areas were flooded. We were
literally we couldn't get to town from
our our home for a couple of weeks. Um,
and so they had some big national
festivals that had been suspended. So
the first Sunday that things kind of
cleared and we're driving off to to
church and this road's blocked. So I go
to the left and I try I trying to circle
through Devid this way and this road's
block. They were catching up on all the
festivals that they had missed uh during
the rainy season and we tried for over
an hour by the time we we figured we
aren't going to make it to church. We
drove home and we watched you all on
video that Sunday morning. uh which made
three weeks in a row that we had
worshiped with you because the two
previous weeks we couldn't get to town
because uh them there's a a road between
us and a river between us and town we
couldn't get to. But there are festivals
all of the time. They they celebrate two
different independences in Panama. They
have independence from Colombia and then
they they have another independence from
Spain. And so they have two independence
days. Uh they've got more festivals.
They've got national festivals. They've
got state festivals. They've got uh
traditional uh the the picture at the
top with the with the children holding
hands. Uh that's actually the children
at church after Sunday morning services
on one of the f festival weekends. Uh it
was a festival that was honoring the
farmers and and the day workers and
everything else. So everybody else
dresses up in what we might call their
peasant clothes and the children did
recitations of of traditional poems and
songs and things like that. And so
there's a lot of tradition in Panama and
you're running it all the time. Uh and
and just driving back and forth to
church and town. You see a lot of the
local too. most of you you know people
you know the indigenous groups when
you're driving through because they all
have their own kind of color schemes and
their clothes that they wear and that
kind of thing as well. But um it's
pretty neat the tradition. They're very
patriotic people. They love their
country. Uh they love their traditions.
They love their history. Uh and if
you're a history buff, you should read
about Panama. There's some really really
interesting history. Uh this is just a
little aside. Uh, in the home that we
live in, the house next door to us, some
friends of ours that live there now, was
once occupied by a serial killer. So,
there's a book called The Jolly Roger
Social Club, and it tells the story of
expats who who were conmen who went to
Panama, and they ended up they killed
three or four different families and
took their properties. And at one time,
they lived in the same neighborhood that
I live in. So, um, his name, they call
him Wild Bill. I don't remember his
name, but he's still in prison uh in
Panama at this
time. This is our dream home. Uh we did
not expect to be in this house. It's it
it's now a beautiful home. Uh and I tell
you that because when we bought the
house, the the picture there where you
see all the trash bags, those are those
big industrial black bags. I took 14
bags of that out of the house before the
house was cleaned. Uh, a gentleman in
Cape Coral built the home. He dreamed
one day of retiring in Panama and his
wife never liked it. And so the house
sat vacant for almost 10 years now. Just
consider sitting vacant for a decade in
a tropical climate and we're right near
the water. So we've got the the heavy
salt breezes coming against the house as
well. So it was a mess. Uh there you see
the some of the cracks in the
foundation. Uh you see where we had to
replace the gas line into the house. All
the AC units were were bad in the house.
They have room air conditioners there.
They don't have central air. Uh all the
appliances had to be replaced. I had to
have the house cleaned three or four
times. Uh we had to have the roof
repaired. We had to get the bats out of
the roof. We had to get the bats out of
the bedroom. We had to get the bats out
of the vents that came into the bathroom
into the pipes into the bathroom vents.
Matter of fact, I went in and I clicked
the traps out and all a dozen dead and
it's the little bats about this big. Uh,
and they're like cockroaches. They can
get in anywhere. Uh, so I take the vent
off and about a dozen bats uh, dead bats
fell in the floor and I'm cleaning it up
and Debbie's like, "I'm glad you did
that." Uh, but then a few weeks ago we
were we're gradually replacing things as
we're able. So, we actually replaced
these lighted vents in the the shower
stalls in the house. And so, the the
electrician came and he took the whole
big unit out. And I mean, they just
went. So, I mean, just a whole bunch
more of dead bats came out of that. So,
we've had to have all the vent lines for
the dryer, all the vent lines for the
exhaust fans, and everything else. Bats
are a real problem. Uh we've we've had
the roof since we've been there a year,
three different times in different
places. is we've had to go back and
patch little places on the the tile roof
because they find a way in and once one
finds a way in, a dozen find their way
in. So, you really have to stay on top
of it. Uh so, anyway, we do have a
beautiful home. We love our home, but
we've had to paint. We've had to repair,
we've had to replace, we've had right
now, uh there's a couple of workers that
are redigging our well because Debbie
can't wash white clothes at our house
because we have such so much iron
content in the water. I put a filtering
system on it. Uh, and so they're they're
they're taking it down deeper. The
upside of that is a day laborer is about
$25 a day to dig. So, uh, there there
are some some real benefits to all of
that. Just to kind of give you an idea,
an electrician came out. He changed
eight exterior lights in our house. He
moved a ceiling fan. He put an exhaust
vent in. And the total cost for all that
electrical work was $80. So you all know
what that would cost you here in
typically unskilled labor is $25 a day.
Skilled labor is about $40 a day in
Panama. And so there are some benefits
uh to living
there. This is our church home. This is
declided. Um the church of Christ in
Devid. This is the nearest town to us.
This is where we go to shop. This is
where we go to church. And I couldn't
speak any higher uh of the people in
this congregation from the first day
that we came to Devid. The the brethren
there just welcomed us and and they just
had this warm and loving spirit. They
know that that we're still learning
Spanish. And so early on there's a young
man that leads singing quite often. And
so he might
say, which you know 225 is the song
number. and they talked so fast that
with my hearing it was really hard to
pick up. And he'd look over and he goes
225. So we turn our song books to 225.
And and obviously singing the songs is a
great way to learn the language. And so
we love singing the songs in Spanish and
every once in a while they'll be singing
a song and I'll I'll hear um I'll hear
Matteo say in English and then they'll
sing a verse in English. And so we'll
all sing a verse in English. And so uh
they're very accommodating that way.
Most of the people if they have a
handful of English words or they speak a
little bit of English, they come and
they want to talk to us in English
because they want to learn English.
Uh we want them to talk to us in Spanish
because we want the the best way to
learn is conversationally. We learn more
going to church on Sunday and going into
town because we live in a community
that's mostly expats. So, if we don't
leave our community, we don't get to ch
we don't get to practice our Spanish.
Although, we're starting a new AI
program where we're going to actually
have conversations now online. But, but
they're wonderful. They have a number of
different men preach. The older
gentleman that's baptizing there is
Fernando Pon. Uh he's the preacher. They
moved there from Nicaragua 50 years ago.
Uh he's been preaching in Devid for a
long time. He's 84.
uh his son Douglas uh of all
the he puts PowerPoint slides up and
they got the scripture references and
basic outlines and so with with our
limited Spanish and while we're still
learning it's very easy to follow him.
Brother Fernando is a a very traditional
old school preacher and uh his son
Douglas will preach 2530 minutes which
is a very short sermon in Panama. and
Brother Fernando will preach about an
hour and a half. So, when we show up for
church on Sunday services, we we arrive
for worship. And I'll kind of get back
to that right now. Uh we skip Bible
study. We skip Bible study not because
we're being bad people. We skip Bible
study because we have Bible study in our
home with a whole group of expats who
quit going to church. So, we get up
extra early, hold Bible study in our
home, go to church in Devid and sit
through services for about two hours.
That's the Sunday morning sermon. That's
not Bible class and worship. Uh and then
probably another 20 minutes of
announcements after that. Literally, uh
services may start between 11 and
11:30. And we usually don't get home
till 2 or 2:30 in the afternoon on
Sunday. And so by the time we've gotten
up early, we've made coffee, we've had
refreshments for the people coming to
our home, and we get back, we're
exhausted.
And uh but but again the the folks here,
they're very involved with there's some
churches, some rural churches that they
go out there and they help evangelize
with. They have a ladies class. They
have a sun uh Saturday morning
evangelism class where they meet
together to discuss evangelism and go
out and do work in the neighborhoods. Uh
they're a very very active group of
people and uh we're truly truly blessed
uh to be affiliated and working with
them. Tell you an interesting story
about Devid. I told him, "I'm coming to
the States and there's a church in
Nashville that's interested in in
participating and would like to see uh
more being done." Uh they had supported
me in the past. And so I met with the
brethren and I said, "What do you need?
What does the church here?" Because we
don't want to dictate. I'll tell you
what I think we need. If you look real
close where it says our church home, if
you look at those uh benches, I was so
envious of you today sitting in these
nice soft comfortable chairs that you
have. They have wooden slat handmade
benches that we sit on Sunday morning.
And after two hours, my back is so
tired. So, uh, my first thought, Debbie,
I thought, let's raise money and buy
them some nice comfortable chairs for
the church building. But I asked
them, when you do mission work, it
shouldn't be about what I want. What
does the church need? What does the So,
I asked the church, what do you want?
And they said, we want to take you up to
Vulcan. There's a need for a church.
There was a church once in Vulcan, just
a handful of people meeting and then
COVID hit and the country shut down like
everybody else and we want to see the
work in Vulcan get started again. I was
so impressed with their spirit and their
attitude. And so we went in Vulcan and
we met with some of the people and we
discussed with with a few of the people
who had once been worshiping
there and came back and I said, "Is
there anything else?" and said, "Well,
there's a preacher up in Bocus and he's
got a little shed roof building that
they're meeting in." And they went from
like 20 to like 120 in about 18 months.
And and he said he lost his support in
the US. And so every time I ask them
what they need, they think of somebody
else. They're looking outwardly. They're
looking at what the the kingdom needs.
And so just a wonderful group of people
and and and we just love them to death.
There is one one sister in the church
there, sister Olivia, that I love her
because we walk up and uh people will be
speaking English. She says, "No, no, no,
in espanol." In
espanol and she says they need to learn
Spanish in espanol. So she insists that
we speak Spanish and we talk to her in
Spanish and and I'm really grateful for
her because she's right. We need we need
to speak Spanish better than we
do, but we're still
learning. Again, this is our brethren in
in Devid. Uh different activities. Some
of those pictures are from their their
patriotic day. Uh everybody, like I
said, they wore their traditional. So,
that's as close as Debbie and I could
get to traditional Panamanian
uh stuff. But, uh the church is just
doing a bang-up job. But what I'm most
impressed with is how many of the men in
the congregation get up and teach and
preach and are active and involved and
working and and the ladies like I've
never been in a church where the ladies
weren't working. And the church in Devid
is the same. The ladies are really
active. They have ladies Bible class at
Sister Ruby's house during the week. Uh
they had they went to a lady's
encampment in the country a few weeks
back. So we're just we're really really
blessed there. And the youth group, I I
can't say enough about the youth group.
The young man, Miguel, kind of leads the
youth group and uh he's not like a youth
minister or paid staff. He just does a
lot of things with the young people and
they're absolutely terrific, too.
So, and I'm I'm going to try and keep
this fairly brief and take some time for
questions and then I assume the
invitation after that.
So, one of the things Debbie and I got
involved in is the it's called the Los
Pacito School. The Los Pacito School is
a little one room schoolhouse. It's
about 10 minutes from our house. They
have about 20 students K through 12 in
this one room, one teacher, and it's one
of the the poorest areas in in all of
the Alanhee district. In Panama, you
have Panama and then you got your
provinces which are like our states. And
then within your provinces, you have
your districts which are like our
counties. And we're in we're in the
Cherokee State. We're in the Alanhee
district. Well, in the Alan district,
the Los Pacita school is the poorest
school in the area. A group of my
neighbors have already before we ever
got there, they were taking up
collection every year. They feed the
kids breakfast every morning. Uh it's
the best meal these kids eat all day
long. Um they just don't have anything.
So Debbie and I began to join the group
there and so we volunteered some with
the Los Pacita school on this particular
day. They were having an educational
field trip to the beach where they were
releasing uh sea turtles. Debbie and I
were also trained in sea turtle rescue.
So we we now know how to take care of
and manage and work at the the rescue
center and do all of that, which is
really kind of cool. I've I've never
released sea turtles before, but uh I
lost count. I think it was somewhere
between eight or 10 thousand sea turtles
they released from this one beach this
year. It was just u on this particular
morning there were 450 turtles released.
But the kids came down and we packed
lunches for them and we provided food
and they went through the some of the
teachers came down from the city and
they educated. Um, but we're trying to
do more for the school, too. And we're
trying to find
programs for the school and for the
parents in Los Pacitus where rather than
just giving them a meal or rather than
just feeding them or pouring money and
we're trying to find some programs and
while I'm in Nashville, I'm going to be
talking to folks at Healing Hands of
what we might do to help them help
themselves. A lot of these are are
migrant workers that travel through and
that kind of thing. But the passage that
was read in Matthew 18 this morning,
this year of all the things we've done,
the work we've gotten to do with
children has just been some of the most
rewarding. Uh working with these kids
with the Los Pacita School, they're so
grateful and they got such warm hearts
and and all of that. And then later I'm
going to talk about Operation Christmas
Joy that you all participated in this
year. But again, the picture in the the
top left, that's the school teacher, and
that's about half of her class. And like
I said, it's quite a task for her to be
to be able to teach them. But uh you'd
never know that the the kids uh that
they lacked anything. They just they
were happy. They're joyful.
But uh outside of the the meal they get
for breakfast, one of the things we're
trying to get some people in the
community to do is to to try to do like
a monthly grocery uh thing for the
parents and the families
with rice and corn. And we're in an
agricultural area. When when you drive
from the city of Devid to our house,
it's sugarcane, rice, and corn. And
that's all you see for the 20-minut
drive to our house is sugarcane, rice,
and corn. And so there's an abundance of
food. And and the nice thing is local
food is really really cheap. Uh just to
kind of give you an idea before I came
back, uh just before I came back, we
were we were fixing Debbie was last
Sunday morning, we had we had uh Easter
services for our community like at 6:30
in the morning before we went into
Devid. Debbie fixed some little muffin
sized kishes. So, we needed eggs. We
needed lots of eggs. So, we went to the
market and we bought 30 eggs for
$4.98. So, I know what eggs were costing
y'all. Um, we were kind of following
that for a while there. How ridiculous
eggs had gotten, but and and and these
are all natural. The these are whole
food eggs. These these aren't, you know,
this is the good stuff. You crack you
get that deep yellow color in the yolks
and all. And so that's one of the real
blessings is all the local sourced food
that we get there is just fabulous. But
anyway, these kids, we're looking for
ways that we can maybe get some
groceries to the families as
well. Operation Christmas
Joy, if you did anything for us this
year, it was participating in in this
program because I'll tell you what,
nothing touched our hearts this year as
much as going up and being involved in
this. Brandon's efforts with the young
people and everybody that packed boxes
here and everything else. I can't I just
can't tell you how every day we were
just
overwhelmed. First day when the the
container arrived, there were about
9,000 boxes uh on that container for us
to be able to distribute. We had to
unload all of those and we were
thinking, "Oh my goodness." cuz you know
there were just a handful of us workers
and then there were a few people from
the church that came out and then the
capif police showed up which are the
border police uh in Panama and the
police unloaded most of that container.
Now we packed some trucks for the the
police and they took them to some of the
local schools and they helped distribute
them. But I come to find out that one of
the church's greatest friends up in the
Darian Gap region are the border police.
Uh there's been so much good done at the
medical clinic there. There's been so
much good done for Operation Christmas
Joy uh that they look out after the
Churches of Christ up in the
Darien. I want to add this about a lot
of you have heard about the Darian Gap
or the Darian region and you've heard
about all the migrants and all of that
and I don't want to get into politics
too much except to say that a couple of
things factually about the situation.
one, by the time we went up there, the
border had pretty much been slowed to a
trickle. Uh, and so a lot of the stories
you hear didn't really impact us. But I
never felt safe, unsafe, the whole time
I was in the Darian region. And we went
all the way to the end of the
Pan-American Highway to the town of
Yiza, which the only way to get from
there to Colombia is by boat. And so we
went to the end of the line. I went and
spent two days in the refugee camps uh
while we were in the Darian. Never ever
did I feel unsafe during that time. But
in all fairness, back in May, a year
ago, President Molino, long before
elections and all the rhetoric and
everything here happened, President
Molino ran on shutting down
uh illegal immigration in Panama. That
was one of his platforms. That and
rebuilding the economy and income
through the Panama Canal region. Now, I
say all of that to say this is that we
hear a lot of political things from both
sides and you know, Rex's joking about
the canal and this and that and all the
stuff that goes on up at this level, but
Panama's pretty stable country so far.
We're we're very very pleased with the
efforts economically of what the
president's done. The biggest issue we
were concerned about is we knew going
into Panama last year, we had friends
that they couldn't get to the grocery
store for weeks because of protests.
Now, they weren't violent protests, but
they would literally block all the main
highways and not let people get through.
And one of the other things the new
president ran on was the fact that uh he
says, "You can protest peacefully all
you want in Panama. We're not going to
oppose your protests, but you're not
going to block highways. You're not
going to block people from getting to
hospitals. You're not going to affect
the economic aspects of the country by
doing so. So, we've had over the last
three weeks, we've had serious threats
of protests in Panama. And uh they've
all turned into nothing. They matter of
fact, everybody was running to town to
gas up all their vehicles last week and
we ended up going back and forth two or
three times without any
uh instances or problems or anything
whatsoever. So, a lot of the things
you're hearing discussion about here in
the
US, measures had already been taken in
Panama well over a year ago. Well, just
about a year ago. It was in May of last
year that President Molina was elected.
And so, a lot of the things that have
been done that have been you're hearing
about in the US now actually happened 12
months ago. Uh, and and we're just
seeing the the beginning of it. There
were some interesting things as far as
refugees and things like that that we
learned. First of all, I I just saw an
article that came out that was just it
was a typical political thing talking
about oh how horrible it is that they
shut down the country and people can't
come through and all these villages are
impacted and everything else. We spent
10 days in the dairian and the general
consensus was we're thankful that crime
is down, that violence is down, that
illegal trafficking is down and all
these other things. And so when people
talk about well the economies of a
couple of small villages deep into the
jungles have been affected, it doesn't
talk about all the regions that have
been affected in a positive way because
of the reduction in crime and violence
and kidnapping and and all the other
things that went on. The other thing you
need to know about Darien, and by the
way, Darien is on the opposite side from
where we are in the country. We're we're
we're a 12-hour drive to Darien. Um,
we're we're on the Costa Rican side of
Panama. The other thing you need to
understand is that all the things we
hear about all the and and there are
some terrible things. Don't
misunderstand. There's some awful awful
things happened in the jungle with
people being trafficked through Panama,
but it all happens in a very narrow
about 8 mile strip through Colombia to
the Changanola River um to where the
refugee camps are.
Darian may be one of the most beautiful
places I have ever seen with some of the
warmest, friendliest, kindest people
that you'll ever meet. And I just say
all that to say, we all need to be
careful about how we view that. A lot of
times the average person on the ground,
the people who are living daytoday, the
people who are in their little villages
or in their huts or growing their farms
or whatever
else, they're almost totally unaware of
the politics of what's going on in the
world. They care about putting food on
their ch kids table. They care about uh
being able to get their kids an
education if they can. And uh but this
program, Operation Christmas Joy and the
Darian, I mean, just look at the faces
of these children. And we got to see
thousands and thousands and thousands.
Matter of fact, there was one church we
went to that we ran out. And so we had
to send a truck back down to the
compound and fill back up so that we
didn't have to turn any children away
and saying, "No, we don't have any
presents for you today."
Uh we there were people that came to
Christ as a result. This gentleman and
his daughter that were baptized into
Christ, they had been traveling 4 hours
up the river and had been meeting with
some of the members of the church for
that time. and they're trying to train
him and teach him so that he can take
the gospel back to his little village
that has no roads, that has no
transport. He has to get on a little
dugout wooden canoe and go four hours up
the river uh to be near his people. But
he he was first they first met him last
year, not this past Christmas, but the
Christmas before as a result of
Operation Christmas Joy.
Many of the villages were indigenous
villages that we went
to and Debbie got to use a little bit of
her nursing skills while we were there
as well. Uh Larry Brady and I know you
got to meet Larry when you went up there
to take the gifts and stuff. Larry's
been organizing this program for over 30
years, but Larry was having some real
serious health issues and things while
he was here this time. Matter of fact,
he brought a couple a couple of times.
I'm gonna have to find somebody to
replace me in this because uh because of
his age and his health and everything
else. So Debbie was there and she kept
track of his blood pressure and she
looked after him and in addition to
helping the kids, she was looking at
him. The picture of Debbie and I on the
bridge. That's Yiza. That's as far as
you can go on the road. And that's
that's about a quarter mile past the end
of the road. Uh, and that that little
bridge crosses the river where from
there you can take little dugout boats
and and that's a pretty effective
business. I mean that there's no big
boats on that river. They're all these
little dugout canoes, six or eight
people at a time. They run them up and
down the river on probably a little 15
horse uh power uh
motor. Uh the picture of the little
shack, that's what the refugee camps
looked like uh in the Darian region. And
you can see the boats. Those are the
boats that they transport people on the
river
in. I want to tell you what a small
world it
is. When we went there, we we kind of
had an idea that some point we wanted to
reach out to the expats that lived
around us in Panama as well. We had
talked to people and we discovered that
some of these folks used to go to
church, but when they retired to Panama,
they kind of retired from going to
church. Some of them some of them had
tried to go into church and and some of
the Spanish-sp speakaking churches in uh
Devid and they got frustrated with just
really not getting anything out of the
service. And and I'll admit it was hard
the first four or five months with with
our Spanish being very limited. It was
very very hard. We had to work extra
hard. We would use Google Translate on
our phones to follow the lessons as best
we could. So it takes a real commitment.
But most of the people, they just like,
well, you know, it's just too much work.
There was an English-speaking church,
but it's all the way in Bokeet, which
was two hours from where we lived. And
so, after we kind of got to know people,
let me back a little bit. I got to tell
you this story. When we went, we made
three trips before we finally decided to
go to Panama. And so, some of these
people we had gotten to know along the
way. And we asked about church all the
time when we would go and visit. Well,
word got out in our neighborhood that
kind of the Jesus freaks are coming to
Panama. And so all these people were
really, really concerned that, oh no,
here come these missionary people that
all we're going to hear about is Jesus,
Jesus, Jesus. So we we got to thinking
about, well, it may not be the best
thing the first or second Sunday to
invite these folks for a Bible study. We
need to make some friends first. So we
did. We made some friends. We got to
know some people in the community. We
found out who the faith people
were and then a couple of months ago we
reached out to a handful and we said
would you like to come to a Bible study
in our home and even that was kind of
the invitation was taken with kind of
your church of Christ people the you're
the only ones going to heaven attitude
and so people very very skeptical and I
said we are just going to study the
Bible
We're going to read the Bible. We're
going to look at the Bible and we're
going to talk about what the Bible says.
That's it. Promise. Have my word. So, a
handful came and about the time we
started, some of you know the story who
followed. Four of our friends went on a
safari to Africa. And when they were on
a bus going to the Krueger Game Reserve,
uh the bus was on wet um wet roads and
he was going too fast and he lost
control and he hit an embankment and he
flipped the bus and all four of our
friends were hurt. Uh broken ribs,
cracked shoulders, broken. But the lady
in the bed there, uh Debbie Pearson,
Debbie's still paralyzed from her
abdomen down. Um, and so we uh we began
to call around called Keegan. I think
you were gone at the time somewhere. I
can't remember. Uh, and then I called
friends at World Bible School and they
put me in touch with um Ben Little in
Johannesburg, South Africa. Ben Little
went and met with these families, helped
them find an attorney in Panama, uh,
came back to the hospital and checked on
them. And so, uh, the funny thing was
Brad and Debbie have zero church
background, but all of a sudden they're
open to the idea of God and prayer and
help and all of that. But even more
amazing is all of our friends who all of
a sudden, even even the folks who are
coming who are a little skeptical of
this Church of Christ preacher guy, all
of a sudden are like, "Hey, these Church
of Christ folks aren't such bad people
after all."
And so the picture in the bottom left
corner is a lot of our neighbors and we
took this picture and we sent it to
Debbie
um just to have something to try to
encourage her, let her know we're
thinking about her, praying about
her. So Debbie gets finally she gets
metafllighted, she's healthy enough,
they send her back to San Jose,
California, where she's in a treatment
facility right now.
The individual there who's standing next
to her in the hospital, her name is
Terry
Favre. Terry and I were friends and
college mates back at Harding 35 plus
years ago. Terry just happens to live in
San Jose and her and her husband support
the work. Uh so Terry went and we sent
her the copy. She went and had the
picture printed out. She bought a frame.
She went to the hospital and she took
the framed picture to Debbie and sat it
in the hospital. And so she's been back
two or three times to visit them in the
hospital. So God's opened doors. We're
in Panama. They're in South
Africa. They're in San Jose,
California. But God's people are
remarkable and they're amazing. And all
my friends can say are your Church of
Christ people are amazing. She says,
"You guys are wonderful." All of a
sudden, they're seeing by actions and
deeds what God's people
are, not by what we
say. Jesus said, "By this shall all men
know you are my disciples, that you have
love one for
another." So now all of these folks who
were skeptical, who are coming to Bible
study, are starting to think, "Hey, you
know what? This is okay." And for a
couple months now, Bible school study's
gone well. We finished Philippians.
We're into the book of Luke now. And uh
it's been encouraging and private
conversations are being held over
things. We have a couple of Baptists,
we've got a Methodist, we've got uh I'm
trying to think, two Catholics all
coming to Bible study uh on Sunday
morning at our house. And last Sunday we
thought, how can we reach the whole
community? So we thought, let's have a
sunrise service at the beach and invite
everybody to come. So, we had 17 people
present Sunday morning. We've only been
at this for a couple of months now. And
so, uh, we're just really, really
thankful that God is opening doors. But
I'll tell you this,
folks, we are far more challenging than
the Panameanian people
are. Those of the the the expats are are
we love we love our neighbors. They're
great folks. I'm just telling you, we we
we dig our heels in sometimes so deep
and we're so, you know, bent on what we
believe that it's hard to just open the
book, say, "Let's put all that aside and
see what God has to
say." And and I think sometimes we're
consumed with what we have and tradition
and a thousand other things. And so
those of you that get the newsletters,
keep praying for us because it's a
difficult group to be navigating every
Sunday morning. But but they've been
wonderful and they've been a blessing.
And uh matter of fact, uh there's one
couple that they've just had a really
rough time. They're from Canada. They
live in Panama now. They're trying to
sell their house and go back home. Life
has not turned out for them the way they
hoped it would, but they're asking a lot
of questions. They didn't want to come
at first and now they're coming to Bible
study and over the last couple weeks
they're like, "Well, how do we know the
Bible's right? How do we know that the
story of the virgin birth is true? How
do we know this? How do we know that?"
And and and they're genuine, honest
questions. And so we're we're excited
about that. As I mentioned last
Sunday, always wanted to do this. always
wanted to do a beachfront service on on
sunrise service and uh but we were up
there at five o'clock in the morning in
the dark with flashlights trying to set
up and get ready and and uh it was
almost like church. We even had
fellowship afterwards with with food and
everything else. So uh and surprisingly
I spoke on the resurrection last Sunday
morning. Um but I little different view.
We talked about the resurrection from
the standpoint of Jesus partaking of the
Passover and how that the Passover feast
and the Lord's supper are tied together
and the symbolism of those things and
freedom and deliverance that took place
in the Exodus and freedom and
deliverance that comes through the
death, burial, and resurrection of
Christ. And so that was the message this
morning. And uh we even had somebody who
they don't even they don't live there,
but they just happened to be in for the
week and they heard about it and so they
showed up. He owns a restaurant up on
the beach in Dustin, Florida. And he
showed up for services and he said, "I
was so glad I heard something was going
on today because I didn't know what I
was going to do for church." So, it it
it's been exciting. It's been
challenging, but it's been exciting as
well. And so,
uh what does the future hold? Well,
that's in God's hands. And I'll tell you
this, uh a dear friend of ours, and let
me see if he's in the back picture here.
Uh, you can't really see him in this
picture, but
um, a real good friend of ours who
teased me relentlessly. Bobby has a
Baptist background and he teased me
relentlessly about my Church of Christ
background and all of that. He started
saying he as he has a lot of questions
and he started asking me um, you know,
how has this all panned out for you?
because he wants to get more involved in
working with the Panameanian people and
doing things and all of that and he's
asking a lot of Bible questions and
things like that. Um but but in all of
that we're having some real really great
discussions about everything but he's
like clearly God had different plans for
you than you had when you came. And I
said yeah I think most of my life it's
been that way. you know, you plan, you
prepare, you do what you can, and then
kind of like Paul going over to
Macedonia, that Paul had one plan and
and the Holy Spirit had another and God
says, "I need you here." And we really
believe God needed us in Panama,
especially in western Panama where the
church isn't very strong. But God also
help us realize that some of the things
that we wanted to do initially, they
don't fit in the the pattern right now.
Maybe later, maybe not at all. But what
he does need, we found and and the the
brethren at the church in Devid really
opened our eyes to this. They have taken
us to places where there's a tremendous
need for the church. Vulcan, which is
which is up near the base of Mount
Vulcan. Um, that's that one mountain you
saw at the first picture. Uh, it's a
pretty goodized community because across
that ridge of the mountain, that's the
bread basket of Panama. That's where so
much of the food is produced. So, it's a
very agricultural community up there.
But there's all these little towns there
there there's Wcan and there's Sarapuna
and there's these other communities that
need a church that don't have one.
And then from there, if you go up from
from where we live, you go up to Dvid
and you kind of make a left and and you
head west, you you get to the border of
Costa
Rica. And the only way to get to Port
Armoas is you have to go up north and
over and then go back down south.
There's no I can I can look out my
window and I can see Port Way is 20
miles away but I have to drive an hour
and 45 minutes to get there cuz there's
only unless I get on a boat there's only
one way to get to Port Way is I've got
to go all the way up through Devid all
the way to the border and all the way
back down. A couple Sundays ago I was at
services and a young man came in and he
spoke very good English and we were
talking and I asked him where he lived.
He said, "Fort Wayne, Indiana." And I
said, and he had his parents with him
and he was trying to get some Bibles to
take back with him to where his parents
lived. I said, "Well, you know, where do
your parents live?" He says, "Port
armor." And I said, "Really?" I said,
"Is there a church there?" He says,
"Well, no, there used to be a few people
who meet, but the church doesn't meet
anymore, but we'd like to see something
for, you know, mom and dad to see that
get started again as well." So, we got
to know him and funny story, they
weren't members of the church and he
applied for those of you who know
Harding University, there's a Walmart
distribution center there near Harding.
Well, there's also a Walmart scholarship
attached to Harding University. So, this
young man applied for a Harding
scholarship from Port Armas, Panama to
go to Harding.
He's baptized into Christ. He comes back
and teaches his parents and family. Now
he's in Devid getting Bibles and I get
to meet him. And Portoas was on our
radar, has been on our radar for a while
hopefully to be one of the places where
we can plant a
church. Now folks, that's God's handwork
and that's not
mine. God put the right people in the
right place at the right time and made
the right connections for us. And it's
funny, we start telling some of our
friends the stories about how we ended
up there and how it happened and so many
things had to happen at the right place
at the right time in the right way and
and some of them roll their eyes at us
like, "Well, yeah, you think
everything's about God, don't you?" And
but other ones are just like they can
see it. They understand that God has a
work for us. The problem is sometimes we
need to slow down.
We really need to slow down and stop and
pray and listen. This Bible study in our
home, I prayed for four months that God
would show me the right way to handle
that. And I still pray every Sunday
morning. I pray, please Lord, don't be
problem. And it it it's a bit of a
minefield, but we have to trust God to
do what needs to be done.
Plans for the future. Port Armoyas,
Vulcan, Sapunta,
Santiago, the west of Panama needs the
church. Dvid's good, solid congregation.
Um, there's some other small little
groups meeting. I'm hoping to go up to
Bokeas when I get back because this
brother up in Bocus, this young man is
absolutely tearing it up. I don't know
what he's doing. He's working among the
indigenous people up there, but he is
doing just an absolutely bangup work. Um
the the shed you see there, what looks
like a shed roof, that's brother
Otilian. That's the brother up in Bocus.
All the people lined up in the river to
be baptized, that's brother Otilian up
in Bocus. And so I I can't get up to see
him soon enough to find out what he's
doing up there, but he's doing something
right.
So, just so you know, if you look to the
left of Panama where it says
Cherokee, that's where we live. Uh we we
live in Cherokee. We live right just
south of Devid. Uh and the church is
right in Devid. And uh if you look up to
the top, see where it says Sapuna? Uh
Seraponta Vulcan, those are the areas up
in the mountains where we'd like to see
churches. And you see down on the coast
at the other side, Port Armas is one of
those communities that uh if if you were
here in the US and you were saying, you
know, what's a booming growing area
going to be five years from now that
maybe we need to be thinking about a
church in the future, Porto Muyes,
Portmoas is Chaita Banana Country. Um
when Chaita Banana was bringing most of
their bananas from Colombia and Panama,
which most of them come from the
Philippines now. I don't know if you
knew that, but uh that's becoming banana
country again. But but the new president
has gone and they built a new hospital
in Port Armoy. They built a new baseball
stadium, which was probably more
important than the hospital to the
Panameanian
people and they are rebuilding the pier
that was once used by United Fruit
Company or Chaita Banana. Uh so that
area is probably the next big area
that's just going to explode. And if we
don't get there and start a
congregation, the Mormons and the
Jehovah's Witness are because just like
every place else you go, they're there.
Um I went up to Yiza I at the other end
of Panama at the end of the road and
we're walking across that bridge and we
walk up the trail and what is there
sitting there? A little woodshack
building. jw.org
on the building and we need to be there
and we need to be working in these
regions. So if you look at two
provinces, Bokeastel Toro, most of you
if you hear Bokeas del Toro, if you if
you're into travel and all of that, most
of you will think of the archipelago
there. Uh there's all these islands
there. There's a it's a very bohemian
culture there. There's a lot of expats.
It's a it's a party
life. But that's not Bokeas. Bokeas is
that big huge province right there. And
as far as I know, this young man I told
you about, it's the only person I know
who's working in Bokeas right now for
the
church. In Cherokee, there's a couple of
congregations in the entire Cherokee
region. as you start moving west and and
you go by the way this in goi bulgo
region that's depending on who you ask
that's part of bokeast del Turo and
other people will tell you no that's
just indigenous country and it doesn't
qualify as a Panama province or whatever
but but that is all that pink there is
all
indigenous the Varagos next to us
Santiago is a large town Santa Fe uh
Santiago and Santa Fe have congregations
s uh and the further you keep going over
the stronger the church gets. And the
reason is if you go there at Panama
City, US had military bases in Panama
City for
decades. And lots and lots and lots of
our members of the church who served in
Panama went back and did mission work in
Panama. And so the church is very very
strong in that region in Panama. And I
was amazed at how many churches there
are in Darien. uh and when we went
through there, but the further west you
get, the more and that's why we moved to
West Panama, we we wanted to be near a
major city so that we could get the
conveniences and things like that that
we wanted. Uh but we also wanted to be
in the region that had the greatest
need. And so, as I mentioned to you,
each province has their own little uh
like counties. And so, there's Dvid, and
then we're in Alanhee with a little blue
section right down there at the bottom.
That's where we
live. For the most part, we get
everything we want in Panama. Uh there
are a few things. Cheese is very
expensive there, and I like good cheese.
And so, every so often, I treat myself
to a little block of Tamok, the extra
sharp cheddar.
$8.75 for a block of Tamok cheese.
So eggs are only $4.98 for 30, but if
you buy cheese, you might as well just
you just lost all that. So, but every
once in a while, one of the things that
was of all the things you'd think, one
of the things that was hardest for
Debbie when we moved there was they
don't have half and half in
Panama and she likes half and half in
her
coffee. And so we we tried all kinds of
different things. We'd get evaporated
milk and we used the local milk and a
little quart box of whipping
cream little $10. So, so the few things
that we just really really love are the
expensive things. So Debbie has made her
own recipe where she puts a little bit
of evaporated milk, a third of
evaporated milk, a third of regular
milk, and a third of whipping cream into
a thing and she makes her own. I guess
it's third and third and third. It's not
half and half, but uh that's what uh
that's what we use for coffee creamer uh
over there. Most everything else uh I
could put a stack of fresh fruit and
vegetables on a table in front of you
and I get pineapples and mangoes and
cantaloupe and fresh tomatoes and I may
spend $5. Uh, by the way, I have 26
pineapple plants in my yard right now. I
pay a dollar and a quarter for a
pineapple. I cut the top off. I cut the
pine fresh pineapple up. Have it with
breakfast. And I plant the pineapples. A
year from now, I'm going to have fresh
pineapples growing. It takes about two
years. Pineapple plant only produces one
pineapple and then it never produces
again. I don't know if you knew that. Uh
they don't just reproduce. They will put
a chute off like a banana will and
they'll grow another one but then you
have to cut down the main stock or you
cut the top off the one you just took
and you plant a new one and rip the old
one out and you start over again. I
don't know how in the world they sell
pineapples for a buck and a quarter a
piece when they only produce one
pineapple. But they're everywhere. Every
little market, every little place you
go, they're just stacks and stacks and
stacks of pineapples. So pineapples are
cheap. I get bananas 10 for a dollar.
Uh, cantaloupes are a buck and a half.
Watermelon's about the same price, four
or five dollars. I'm not crazy about
panameanian watermelons. Uh, mangoes are
cheap. Papayas are cheap. Uh, we go we
get our pork from a place that it's
called
Casadero. Uh, they have a pig farm and
they got a little shop in town and so we
get fresh pork from them and you just go
tell them what you want and they'll
they'll cut it up for you. If you want a
side, if you want a whole pig, they'll
get you a whole pig. So, our pork's
pretty cheap. If we buy national beef,
the Panameanian beef, uh, it's pretty
cheap. But the Panameanian beef is all
pasture-fed, so it's very lean. It's
very grainy. It's very tough. Uh, I have
I if we're going to have a steak, I got
to throw it in a a Ziploc bag with
Coca-Cola for a couple of days just to
tenderize it. So, uh, but if you buy
local, you can live very inexpensively
there.
Um, when we went there, we took all of
our savings, the money we got out of our
house, and we paid cash for our house,
so we don't have any debt. Now, we're
living on my social security, which I
was a preacher my whole life, so it's
not a lot, but you can live comfortably
there. Uh, our the taxes on my home, and
for those of you uh in Hillsboro County,
don't guess, but my taxes on my home
last year were
$573 for the year.
So, um, my car insurance for our truck
was about $420 for the year. So, uh, our
groceries are vastly less expensive. Uh,
and so we're able we couldn't we
couldn't do what we're doing now. I
couldn't have retired if we were here in
the US and do what we're doing. I just
couldn't. Uh, but there you can. So, uh,
couple of questions and I haven't been
watching the time, so let me look. I
probably Oh, I talked longer than I
needed to. So, I'll stay around ask
questions after if anybody wants. I'm
not going to keep you any longer. Uh, I
just want to share one thing with you
tonight as as we close. And this is that
one of the things that that I've
realized while being there is just a
real simple truth and that is just get
back to God's
word. You know, we open your Bible, read
and study the word. One of the things we
run into down there a lot, especially
among folks, they have they talk about
this teacher or that teacher or this
thing they saw on YouTube or that thing
they saw or turn your Facebook off and
don't get your religion off of Facebook,
please. God's word's
sufficient. It's all that we need to
understand what his will for us is. And
the thing is, it's it's simple. No, it's
hard to live sometimes. But what God
requires of us is not hard to
understand. We may choose to
misunderstand. We we we may choose to
want we may choose to
disobey. But God has called us to
repentance. Jesus said, "I tell you now,
except you repent, you shall all
likewise
perish." We've all been alienated from
God. We're all sinners in God's sight.
We need the grace of God and the
salvation that comes through Jesus
Christ. And that begins with us
repenting of our sins.
We confess Christ before men. For Romans
says, "For at the heart we believe into
the righteousness, but the mouth
confession is made into
salvation and we're baptized into Christ
for the remission of our sins." For as
many of you are as baptized into Christ,
put on
Christ. It can't get much simpler than
that. If you want to walk with God, if
you want to live with God, if you want
to be eternally with him, then you need
to repent, confess, and be baptized for
remission of your sins. Nathan made a
good point in class this morning about a
bodily resurrection. You want you want
to be part of that resurrection to life
to eternity where this mortal puts on
immortality, where this corruptible puts
on incorruption, then you need to obey
the commands of God and come to Christ
tonight. And we invite you to do that as
we stand together and we sing.
