So uh the lesson today, my part is
pretty simple. You need to be ready. You
need to be ready to uh tell why you
believe what you believe. 1 Peter 3:1
15. But sanctify the Lord God in your
heart and always be ready to give a
defense to everyone who ask you a reason
for the hope that is in you with
meekness and fear. Three simple steps in
that. You see it on the screen. You fill
in the blank how you would fill it in in
your life. You can easily start a
conversation this way. There was a time
when as in my case I was an unbeliever
who laughed at all the church goers
maybe like you do. Then Jesus showed up
in our home and I saw that real change
was possible through
Jesus. And
now I am what I once
mocked who knows very little except what
I know about
Jesus. And I want you to know about him.
How simple is that? Any conversation you
can go that
way. Take it, think about it. But not
only do you need to be ready to tell
them why you believe, you need to be
ready to explain why you are trying to
be in ministry. Because we're all
according to our theological stance,
kings and priests, but we're also all
ministers. We're all preachers. And we
have a theology that doesn't say there's
one preacher at our church, but rather
we are all ministers. We're all
preachers. That's our theology. First
Timothy 1:12 says, "And I thank Christ
Jesus our Lord, who has enabled me
because he counted me faithful, putting
me into the ministry." There's three
simple steps that we see in Paul.
They're really simple here. And I think
you should take what he says in Acts 26
and try to apply it. Look for your story
and tell it. I can tell you my story in
three simple steps. I saw my dad in a
knife fight. I saw my dad in fights and
arrested for
fights. I saw and I was the one who
found him when he attempted to commit
suicide. I saw him disappear and we
didn't know where he was for long
periods of time. I saw him
jailed. Then I saw him have heart
attacks and we thanked the Lord for it.
We thought that would be the change. But
then I saw the drug abuse. I saw my
brother run away from home. I saw my
family in fear and tears on a regular
basis. That was our
life. And then I saw
God changed my dad in response to
one sermon about the gospel on one
Sunday
night. I
heard. So we were taken to Sunday school
and I heard my Bible class teacher,
Brother Wayne
Prim taught me for three years, gone on
to glory. He taught me out of some of
you'll remember if you're old Church of
Christ gospel advocate
quarterlys. I saw my
mother study under Joel Miller film
strips and be baptized. My preacher was
Gus Nichols. But I heard all the greats.
Everybody that if you knew
anybody preached at our church. They
were the big
names and they taught us how to teach
and to preach. Then I experienced like
Paul, God changed our
family. My conversion came on Easter
Sunday night. That's when I was
baptized.
I believe God called me into ministry at
12, even though I'd already kind of
decided I would do it from the age of
eight. But maybe one of the greatest
things that happened to me was my wife
Deb, because she comes from a deep line
of faith, four generations. I didn't
have
that. the mentoring of brother Collins
who's gone
on the call to
Africa the dove I've told you about
seven churches in seven years and then
we believe God called us
here 29 years ago so we each have a
story and it's deeper and and more
emotional to you than you realize you
saw me I'm struggling it would be the
Same with you. Just tell them your
story. That's what Paul did. In our
text, it identifies three things, okay,
that need to be a part of a church that
really cares, that really wants to do
evangelism. You want to be a better
disciple. That's what Jesus is teaching.
Simple stuff. Become a better
disciple. Then sincerely care.
Don't just make a show of care for other
people by giving them money or
whatever. Sincerely
care. Sincerely
pray. Pray about yourself. Sure. You
already knew that. Pray about
them. And then sincere fasting. We've
almost abandoned it except intermittent
fasting to lose a couple of pounds.
We need to be about fasting and
prayer. That's basically my lesson. I
want to quickly give you three thoughts
that I think uh need to be a part of our
thoughts. The New Testament church
prayed and then they reached the masses.
Take a look at these passages. Then alli
these all continued with one accord in
prayer and supplication. That's just
before the church was established. These
that were left prayed, the last
disciples of Jesus. Acts 2:41. Then
those who gladly received his word were
baptized, and that day about 3,000 souls
were added to them. What I'm suggesting
to you is masses were reached based upon
continual prayer. Did you hear what I
just read? They prayed continually about
what was fixing to happen.
They preach 20 minutes but they pray for
10 solid
days. Secondly, the New Testament church
prayed and then reached the multitudes.
It's a slightly different meaning.
Masses refer to the general public and
common people. Multitudes actually
refers to a very large group of people
seemingly an endless crowd. And if you
know how quickly the church grew and how
it may have been 30 or 40 or even 60,000
within a year, then you understand
how it was a multitude. It says in Acts
4:31, "And then and when they had
prayed, the place where they were
assembled together was shaken, and they
were all filled with the Holy Spirit,
and they spoke the word of God with
boldness." Sound familiar? We just read
that it really works and God really
works with us. In the next chapter, it
says, "And believers were increasingly
added to the Lord. Multitudes of men and
women. Prayer helped them reach the
masses. Prayer helped them reach the
multitudes. And finally, and this one
may be even more
important, the New Testament church
prayed and then reached the menes." And
those that's a French word but it
basically means your homes all your
homes. They even call that uh for a
preacher's home often. In Acts 16:2 it
says but at midnight Paul and Silas were
praying and singing hymns to God and the
prisoners were listening to them.
Suddenly there was a great
earthquake so that the foundations of
the prison were shaken and immediately
all the doors were opened and everyone's
chains were
loosed. Did they expect that? No. But
they were praying and God blessed them
because that same night because of that
event. Verse 33. And he took them the
same hour of the night and watched their
stripes and immediately he and pay
attention to this and his family were
baptized. Najes is a members of a
household, a small group. There's
nothing like seeing a family changed.
There's nothing like
it. I are
that. So pay attention. There was a time
when and then Jesus and now I
am. I saw things happen. I heard and I
experienced true Jesus and true
conversion. And we need to recognize
that when we
pray there will be masses, multitudes,
manages reached. That's basically it. M.
Bounds lived between 1835 and
1913. His name was Edward Mckendry
Bounds who's an author. He was an
attorney. He was a preacher. He wrote 11
books. The reason I'm mentioning him,
nine of 11 books are on
prayer. I think the man cared about
prayer. Here's what he said.
What the church needs today is not more
machinery or better machinery, not new
organizations or more novel methods, but
men whom the Holy Ghost can use. Men of
prayer, men mighty in prayer. Think
maybe he knew what he was talking about.
John Knox lived 1514 to 1572.
John Knox was a Scottish minister. He
was a writer in the Reformation
movement. He was very ill. And when he
was very ill, he asked his wife, "Read
me that scripture where I first cast my
anchor." And so she went and got their
Bible and he read the prayer of Jesus in
John chapter 17.
And in the middle of
that, he seemed to forget his weakness.
He began to
pray. He began to intercede earnestly
for his fellow man. Do you pray for your
fellow
man? Then he prayed for the ungodly who
had thus far rejected the gospel. Do you
pray for the ungodly who thus far
rejected the gospel? And then he began
to plead in behalf of people who had
been recently converted that God would
keep them faithful. And then he
requested from the Lord protection for
all the Lord's servants out there who
are trying to preach the gospel. Many of
which at that particular moment in
history were receiving grave
persecution.
As Knox prayed, as he prayed that
day, his spirit
left. Mary, Queen Mary said this of him,
"I fear his, that is John Doc's prayers
more than I do, the
armies of other countries."
He
ministered through prayer in his last
breath. Do we know how important it is?
Would that not be the way you would like
to go? And finally, Dr. Wilbert Chapman
1859 to
1918. When he was a young man, he
started to preach. He went to preach at
this church in Philadelphia. And after
the sermon was over, I've had this
experience. It's fun. an old gentleman
came up to him and says, "You're pretty
young to preach for this
church, but you preach the gospel and
I'm going to try to help you if I can."
And
so Chapman thought, "He's just a
crank." But then the man went on to say
this. Listen to what the man that he
thought was a crank said. I'm going to
pray for
you and that you may have the Holy
Spirit and the power of the spirit upon
you. And two others have con convened
and they're going to join with me in
prayer for you every time you
preach. He said, I didn't feel so bad
when I learned he was going to pray for
me. That three became
10. The
10 became
20. The 20 became
50. The 50 became
200 who met before services every Sunday
to pray that the Holy Spirit might
somehow come upon me. That always I
always went in the pulpit, he said,
feeling that I would have the anointing
to answer to their prayers.
The result
was,00 conversions in three years he
preached at the
insurance. Chaz is going to speak to us
now about trying to complete our
responsibility we've been talking about
for months. We've been talking about how
in the world are we going to actually
reach the world around us and some of
the things we're going to be doing. Come
and speak to us. Ch.
Good morning
everyone. Uh, want to just introduce
myself. I know Rex uh, excuse
me, Rex introduced me, but my name is
Chaz Austin. I am a deacon here at
Creekide. I only do that because I met
someone this morning uh, who has been
worshiping with us for almost a year,
and I met them this morning for the
first time. And so, you know, that's
something I need to work on. I'm guilty
of when I'm here just working uh and not
fellowshipping and not worshiping. And
so that's something that I am uh working
on. I need to change in myself. But uh
you know maybe you guys have experienced
that uh you know as we the Lord
continues to bless us uh with growth and
as the Lord continues to bless us with
growth that opportunity uh is more
likely or that situation is more likely
to happen. uh the more people that we
have here, the harder it is to to know
everyone. And so uh I've got a lot uh to
talk about this morning. I'm going to do
it very quickly because I know that we
have a lot going on here this morning as
well. And so I may rush through this a
little bit, but if you have any
questions at all, please feel free uh to
to grab me, stop me, and and and ask any
questions. But I am excited this morning
uh to share our vision with you of uh
the impact ministry. Uh Rex usually ends
with a story. Uh so I would figured that
I'd start uh with two. Uh a gentleman
prayed, "Lord, I want to make an impact
for your kingdom." God replied, "Great.
Start by serving your church." And the
guy said,
'Well, maybe just a small impact. I was
thinking that I'd shared some Bible
verses on Facebook. And I and I feel
like that's us sometimes. We really want
to make a difference. Uh we want to make
an impact for the Lord, but we really
want for it to be comfortable. We want
for it to be easy, and we want it to be
something that we choose. Uh, another
man was telling a friend, "I want to go
on a mission trip. I am on fire for the
Lord. I want to go on a mission trip. I
want to go maybe Costa Rica, maybe South
Africa, but I am just not sure uh where
to go first." And his friend replied,
"Well, why don't you start with aisle 7
at
Walmart?" A lot of the times we think
that missions are only far away.
uh we think you know and there are some
called to that and that is a very
honorable uh work but for most of us our
mission is right here uh at home our
mission is our neighborhoods our mission
is our workplace our co-workers uh our
mission is even within our
families and since November uh the young
professionals have been going through a
study on disciplehip on evangelism
It's a study about disciples, making
disciples. And this
ministry idea came, a lot of it came
from that from that study with the young
professionals. We looked at what it
means to be a disciple. We looked at the
role of a disciple in the church. We
looked at the role of the church in the
mission of Jesus. And then we looked at
the importance of the church's health in
that mission. And several times in that
study, we asked the
question, what would it look like for
the world around us if our whole church
lived this
out? What would it look like uh if if
the entire congregation in unity was
focused on building up the body of
Christ?
If the entire congregation in unity was
focused on helping each other grow
spiritually, bearing one another's
burdens, and reaching out to those
around us with the gospel. And you know,
these questions turned into prayer. Uh
the prayers turned into vision. And the
vision has become what we're hoping to
call uh the impact ministry. And we
really, you see it there on the screen.
We just want to make an eternal impact
for God's glory. This is not about me.
This is not about the impact ministry.
I'm going to be honest with you. This
isn't even about Creekide. This is about
God. And this is about bringing more
glory to him. And so, uh, we want to
focus with this. While it started as a,
you know, evangelism, disciples making
disciples study, the more that we saw
and the more that we read and the more
that we studied, we saw how important
church health was in evangelism, in uh,
ministry. And so we want to have an
internal focus and an external focus.
And and you see it there. Uh we want to
be focused on building up. Uh that's
inspired from Ephesians 4 11 and 13
which we'll read in a second. And then
we want to be inspired by reaching out.
Uh which is inspired by Romans 10 13 and
15. And and
and let's start with Ephesians 4 11
through13. So internally the focus is
building up. Uh Paul writes and he gave
the he gave the apostles, the prophets,
the evangelists, the shepherds and
teachers to equip the saints for the
work of ministry. Many uh translations
or at least some translations translate
that to the works of service. And Jesus
himself said he came to be a servant uh
but for the building up of the body of
Christ. until we all attain to the unity
of the faith and of the knowledge of the
son of God for mature manhood to the
measure of the stature of the fullness
of Christ. And brother Lou and I have
had several uh conversations on
Ephesians chapter 4 lately and what it
truly means to be the body of Christ and
how that means that the mission of Jesus
is the mission of the church. And so we
have leaders here, we have teachers, we
have elders who are to equip us, the
saints for the works of ministry to
serve each other here. Uh but also those
around us and the goal is so that we all
build up, we grow in love, that we grow
in service, that we grow in unity, that
we grow in maturity, and that we grow in
Christ likeness. The second passage I
mentioned was Romans 10. This one's
uh this one's hit me hard uh
lately. Uh Paul again writes, "For
everyone who calls on the name of the
Lord will be
saved. How then will they call on him
who they have not believed? And how are
they to believe in him of who they've
never heard? And how are they to hear
without someone
preaching? And how are they to preach
unless they're sent? And as it is
written, how beautiful are the feet of
those who preach the good news. The idea
is that salvation is available to
everyone. This context, he's talking
about the Jews and the Greeks, uh the
Gentiles, and but salvation is for
everyone. But someone has to reach out
with that message. Someone has to let
them know what Christ can do for them.
And that someone is us. That's what
we've been tasked with as the body of
Christ. That leads to our mission
statement. Very simple. We just we exist
to uh or we desire to exist uh to ignite
spiritual growth and unity within the
church. We want to help equip our
members uh to love selflessly, to serve
faithfully, and to share Jesus
passionately. And we want to join in
Christ's mission uh to make an eternal
impact for God's glory.
We're going to start uh the first phase.
We're working with the cross initiative
and this is uh just an initial roadmap.
Uh this could change and I pray if this
is not what God wants, I pray that it
does change. Uh but internally and
externally, genuine relationships are
extremely important when it comes to
being who Christ has called us to be,
being who God has called us to be. Uh
the idea of building up, it happens best
in relationship. People grow when
they're seen, when they're encouraged,
when they are serving one another, and
even when they're challenged in love. Uh
reaching out is most effective through
relationship because people are far more
open to hearing the gospel
uh when it comes from someone who is
sincere, as we heard just a minute ago,
when it comes from someone who is
genuine and someone who shows that they
truly care. And so cross stands for
creating relationship opportunities.
We're gonna have three phases that will
hopefully last three months each. Uh we
want to first focus on creating
relationship opportunities for
soulsearching. We want to focus next on
creating relationship opportunities for
soul sharing. And then we want to focus
our efforts on creating relationship
opportunities for soul sewing. And I'm
going to quickly walk you through each
one of these uh very very briefly
uh just to kind of explain what we want
to do. So uh in phase one, we want to
reflect deeply. We want to prepare
ourselves to submit to God's will. We
want to trust in his guidance and we
want to humbly ask the Holy Spirit to
help us in this effort. Uh we're going
to self-reflect.
We're going to ask for God's guidance
through prayer and through fasting. And
we want to prepare ourselves uh for the
mission of Christ Church. And there's
going to be some takeaways today from
phase one. I'll quickly tell you about
phase two and phase three. Uh phase two
is soul sharing. Creating rel
relationship opportunities for soul
sharing. We want to foster a culture of
mutual support and celebration of one
another. Uh we want to encourage one
another with God's love and faithfulness
through the study of his word. And this
is where we hope to come together in
some small groupoup studies. We hope to
start to uh try to cultivate a community
where love uh and and service to one
another is the focal point of what we're
doing here at Creekide. And then we
really want to support each other by
bearing one another's burdens. We we
talked about Galatians 6:2 uh almost
every single class uh on Wednesday
nights and and what it means to bear one
another's burdens, but also from the
other side allowing someone to help you,
allowing someone to bear your burden
when you have one. And then phase three
will be soul sewing. This is where we
hope to plant the truth of God's word in
people's hearts and trust him to nurture
and grow it through intentional
conversation and acts of kindness. We
share the gospel message of hope, love,
and salvation. And and I'm really
excited about this phase. We have some
some ideas to really try and help equip
all of us, and I need it. Um but to
equip all of us to be able to go out and
and share the gospel with those around
us. Uh this isn't just a catchy acronym,
but it's an invitation for each of us to
lean in and live out our faith in real
practical ways. You don't need to be a
Bible scholar. You just need to be
willing. You need to be willing to let
God use you. And I promise there's a lot
of opportunity in uh in this ministry.
So, how can we get involved? Phase one,
remember this is all about reflecting,
resetting, and realigning with God's
will. We're seeking for unity in prayer.
Rex talked about uh prayer and fasting
this morning and we want to implement
that together as a church. If you
remember uh right before the hurricane
back in October, we scheduled a time for
everyone to come to stop what they were
doing and pray the night of the
hurricane wherever you were at, whatever
you were doing. And that was so
powerful. Uh if you were involved in
that, I I can only imagine how touched
uh your heart was. And so what we want
to do every Tuesday at 7 p.m. whether
you're at work, at home, uh if you're
together in a small group study, uh or
with friends, we want to pray
specifically for ourselves. We want to
pray for hearts that will align with
God's will. We want to pray uh for
courage and guidance from the Holy
Spirit. And then we also want to pray
for others as Rex mentioned about
mentioned. uh we want to pray for God to
create opportunities for us uh to to
talk about our faith to share Jesus with
others but we also want to pray for God
to give them a willingness to hear the
message uh unity and fasting on the
first Tuesday of every month uh we will
fast from after dinner until uh
dinnertime on the next evening and I
know that not everyone can fast I know
there are some health issues uh but
everyone can give up something. Uh we're
going to try and do a 24-hour fast
together as a church. Maybe you can only
fast for a meal, but that's something.
Maybe uh you can fast social media for
the day. And I know I need to do that
more often than I do. Uh maybe you can
fast coffee, and there are some in here
uh that I would not recommend uh doing
that because I've seen you without
coffee. Uh but you can fast something
and we want to do that together and then
we'll have a fellowship meal to break
the fast on the very next Wednesday
evening before uh church service. We'll
come together. It's nothing crazy
potluck style. We want to get together
in fellowship after pleading to God uh
in prayer and in
fasting. And then Keegan, Luke and I are
going to work together the last Sunday
night of every month. We're going to
work together with the youth. really
excited about this, getting the youth
involved. They're going to do some sort
of DVO and then we are going to spend
the rest of the Sunday night service uh
going through intentional scripture,
intentional prayer, and intentional
songs about the effort to fulfill
Christ's mission. And so, uh that last
Sunday to the first Wednesday of the
month is going to be very busy for us.
Uh but I'm really excited about it.
We're going to go from that song and
prayer and scripture service to unity
and praying on Tuesday night to fasting
together and then coming together on
Wednesdays uh to break that fast. And I
can just only imagine uh how powerful
that's going to be if all of us are
actively involved in that. On your
seats, I didn't grab one. I was supposed
to grab one, but on your seats, you
should have seen an invitation card and
we uh want to pass those out to the
community. I have an example of a server
at Chili's uh who was interested in
Creekide, but I had nothing to give
them. And that was the first time I had
ever taken a chance with somebody I
didn't know to tell them about Creek
Side, and I had nothing uh to give them.
And so, this is just something small.
It's nothing crazy. It fits in the
wallet. This is also a great opportunity
to just get comfortable talking about
your church, inviting people to church.
You can grab uh more of those cards from
the empty chairs. We have some at the
connect center, which I'll talk about
just in a second. And uh we have more
coming in at the uh end of this week.
The connect center, I'm sure you guys
have noticed that some things have
changed out in the hallway. Uh we have
put together again what we're what we're
calling the connect center, but it's
really a welcome committee. Uh being
very intentional about seeking out our
visitors. I've had a friend from high
school walk in these
doors, sit down, worship with us, and
get halfway through the parking lot
before anyone even said hello to him.
And I was shocked by that uh because I
talked to so many people every every
Sunday. But it was an eye openener. We
need to be very intentional about
intentional about making a very strong
first impression on these visitors uh
and letting them know that we are very
glad that they are here. And then this
isn't on the screen, but we're also
working on refreshing our website a
little bit uh with an intentional focus
on those looking for a church home. And
there's more to come on
that. Let's
uh let's go to God in prayer. We've
talked about praying today. The first
phase is praying. If you guys will pray
with me uh for this effort. Holy Father,
we are just so grateful to be here uh
today. We are so grateful to honor you,
to to worship you, Father, to praise you
and and we now come to you and we just
humbly ask uh that you will help us,
Lord, that you will help us that you
will dislocate our hearts. Uh that you
will help us to align our hearts and our
wills with you and your will. and and
Father, that you will empower us, that
you will encourage us, Father, that you
will help us to be bold when it comes to
sharing the good news about your son and
everything that it means for us. And and
then, Father, for the the world around
us, we just pray that you will help
create opportunities for us to talk to
them. Father, we're not selling
anything. We are not trying to be de
deceitful.
We are just trying to tell more people
about you, about your son, and about the
impact that you guys have had on us and
our families. Father, please help us to
always keep your glory at the forefront
of everything that we do. We are so
grateful for the work of your son on the
cross and we just ask that we never
forget that. And it's in his name we
pray. Amen. Before
uh you can make you can make an impact
for Jesus, Jesus has to make an impact
on you. Uh God is far more uh concerned
with you allowing him to do a great work
in you than he is with you trying to do
a great work for am.
