There's just nothing like Jesus.
We should fix our horizons
upon him.
A new horizon can transform us and
nothing can transform like the horizon
of Jesus. 2 Corinthians 3:18 says, "We
all with unveiled faces,
beholding as in a mirror the glory of
the Lord are being transformed into the
same image from glory to glory, just as
by the spirit of the Lord." William
Burns wrote in a letter to a youth
Sunday school class in Edmura back in
1840
calling your attention to look at Jesus.
He said, "Look unto Jesus
is the whole of the gospel. Look and
wonder.
Look and live.
Look and love.
Look and adore.
Look and admire.
Look and be blessed. Look and be
glorified.
Look eternally. And your hearts will be
filled with the everlasting love. And
your mouth will be an unending
hallelujah.
Just look to Jesus.
There's nothing like Jesus
that we should ever fix our heart upon.
What you have before you is the message
I want to really focus on just for a
second. Look at what he does for us.
Look what he's done for our hearts. He's
the tonic when our hearts are tired and
troubled.
He's the wealth when we feel
impoverished, when we feel poor in
spirit, when our soul is hungry. He is
the life that keeps us from despairing,
that keeps us from wanting to go and not
even be here. Without him, it's hard to
go on at times. He's the wisdom that
keeps us from being so perplexed we
don't know what to do and keeps us from
being so confused that I don't know what
my mind will do next. He's the health
for my sick body or for my hurt or
harmed body. He's the freedom when I'm
addicted to the things I should not be
addicted to.
And he's the freedom that helps me when
I can't be satisfied in my soul.
And he's the grace for the guilt that I
feel from the sin that I've committed.
There's just nothing like Jesus.
There's nothing like Jesus that we
should fix our hope upon. Jesus alone is
able to save us. Matthew 1 21. He will
save his people.
Jesus alone sanctifies us. Hebrews
10:10. We have been sanctified through
the offering of the body of Jesus.
That's how you're pure tonight. He's
able. Only he is able to truly satisfy
us. John 4:14, "Whoever drinks of this
water that I shall give him will never
thirst. I don't want anything else if
I've got Jesus. I don't need anyone
else." And Jesus alone is able to s
sustain us through difficult times. And
one of the ways he does it is just being
an example of how he did it. Hebrews 12
1-3 verse two says, "Looking unto Jesus,
the author and finisher of our faith,
who for the joy set before him endured
the cross, despising the shame, and has
sat down at the right hand of the throne
of God. For consider him who endured
such hostil hostility from sinners
against himself, lest you become weary
and discouraged in your soul. I can go
another day as long as I keep my eye on
Jesus. No matter what the day is like,
no matter what the day is like. There's
nothing like Jesus to fix my hope upon.
But there's nothing like Jesus to even
fix my hearing upon. I need to listen to
him.
In Romans 10:17, faith comes from
hearing and hearing by the word of
Christ. I know King James says God, but
the oishest texts say the words of
Christ.
Dr. SM Lockage,
I don't know if you've ever heard of
him, prominent African-American
church in San Diego, California, passed
away in 2000, but he had a famous
lesson. You I'd encourage you to go to
YouTube and listen. It has a few
different versions of it. So, he used
this little lesson several times and
it's inspirational to listen to it. I'm
going to read it. I won't do it justice,
but I want to read this little speech he
gives because I just I I absolutely just
love it. It's called That's My King.
He said the Bible says my king is a
sevenway king. He's the king of the
Jews. That's a racial king.
He's the king of Israel. That's a
national king. He's the king of
righteousness. He's the king of the
ages. He's the king of heaven. He's the
king of glory. He's the king of kings
and the lord of lords. That's my king.
Well, I wonder, do you know him?
David said, "The heavens declare the
glory of God, and the firmament showeth
his handiwork." That's my king. My king
is a sovereign king. No means of measure
can define his limitless love. No farse
seeing telescope can bring into
visibility the coastline of his
shoreless supply.
No barrier can hinder him from pouring
out his blessings. He's enduringly
strong. He's entirely sincere. He's
eternally steadfast. And he's immortally
graceful.
He's imperially powerful. He's
impartially merciful.
Do you know him?
Well, he's the greatest phenomenon that
has ever crossed the horizon of this
world. He's God's son. He's the sinner's
savior. He's the centerpiece of
civilization. He stands in the solitude
of himself. He's august and unique. He's
unparalleled.
He's unprecedented. He is the loftiest
idea in literature. He's the highest
personality in philosophy. He is the
supreme problem in higher criticism.
He's the fundamental doctrine of true
theology. He is the core and the
necessity for spiritual religion. He's
the miracle of the ages. He's Yes. He's
He is He's the superlative of every good
that you choose to call him. He's the
only one qualified to be an
allsufficient savior. I wonder if you
know him today.
He supplies strength for the weak. He's
available for the tempted and the tired.
He sympathizes and is saved. He strength
strengthens and sustains. He guards and
he guides. He heals the sick. He cleans
the lepers. He forgives sinners. He
discharges debtors. He delivers the
captive. He defends the feeble. He
blesses the young. He serves the
unfortunate. He regards the aged. He
rewards the diligent. And he beautifies
the meek. I wonder if you know him.
Well, my king, he's the key. He's the
key to knowledge. He's the wellspring of
wisdom. He's the doorway of deliverance.
He's the pathway of peace. He's the
roadway of righteousness. He's the
highway of holiness. He's the gateway of
glory. Do you know him? Do you know my
king? Well, his office is manifold. His
promise is sure. His life is matchless.
His goodness is limitless. His mercy is
everlasting. His love never changes. His
word is enough. His grace is sufficient.
His reign is righteousness. And his yoke
is easy. And his burden is light. Well,
I wish I wish I could describe him to
you, but he's indescribable.
Yes, he is. He's God. He's
incomprehensible. He's invincible. He's
irresistible. Well, you can't get him
out of your mind and you can't get him
off your hand and you can't outlive him
and you can't live without him. Well,
the Pharisees couldn't stand him, but
they found out they couldn't stop him.
Pilate couldn't find any fault in him,
and the witnesses couldn't get their
testimonies to agree. Herod couldn't
kill him. Death couldn't handle him. And
the grave couldn't hold him. That's my
king. That's my king. And thine is the
kingdom, the power, and the glory
forever and ever and ever and ever. And
how long is that? Ever and ever. And
when you get through with all the
forevers, then amen.
That's him. All of that was Lockage. I
love that.
So, I just want to notice seven simple
summaries. Okay, seven simple summaries.
Number one,
if I was just going to talk to you about
one last time, I want to preach about
Jesus and I would one last time preach
Jesus the prophesied.
One reason we believe in him because of
this right here. It's so clear that he
was taught before he was born. John 1
29, behold the lamb of God who takes
away the sins of the world. Where did
that idea of the lamb come? all the way
Genesis chapter 4, Abraham. All the way
through the Old Testament, the lamb was
offered, but not the lamb that would
take away the sins of the world. That
was Jesus. Acts 8:35 read a moment ago
points to Isaiah 53 when it says,
beginning at this scripture, he preached
Jesus, but he's pointing back to Isaiah
53, which is the greatest prophecy
probably about Jesus.
And I would one last time want to talk
about how he was popularized. If he
hadn't have been, if he hadn't have
been, we wouldn't have had the book. If
he hadn't, if he'd have been totally
rejected from day one, we'd have never
heard his sermons that had never been
preached. We'd never known enough about
him that you and I could even worship
him today. So, he literally had to be
popular, at least for a time, that had
to be. And he was popularized. In Mark
4:2, it says, "Great multitudes followed
him." I don't know how much a great
multitude is. I know a multitude is
somewhere around 5,000 because we have
that kind of reference, but this great
multitudes, how big is that? Matthew
7:28, why did they follow him? It says,
"The people were astonished at his
teaching." They never heard, never was a
man spoke like that man. And never
since. Nobody can talk like that because
nobody has the authority to say the
things he said except him. And if I was
going to talk one more time, I wouldn't
just talk about how that that
popularization is the reason we have a
New Testament. Somebody wrote it down.
It wasn't him. He didn't write it down.
The people that followed him wrote it
down. But I would one last time preach
Jesus the identified. He had to be
identified. If we didn't discover who he
really was in that process, it still
would have just been great teachings.
But we had to find out he was more than
just a good guy that had a lot of good
things to say. He had to be identified
as to who he was. Mark 16, I mean
Matthew 16:16. I'm so used to saying
Mark 16:16. I'm Church of Christ. Sorry.
Matthew 16:16.
You are the Christ, the son of the
living God. What a great identification.
the Christ. That's the Messiah, the son
of the living God. Not a son of the
living God, the son of the living God.
And second Corinthians 1 verse 19 says,
"The son of God, Jesus Christ, who was
preached among you." So, not only was he
identified when he was here, after he's
over, then Paul and all the apostles
were still identifying. That was the guy
and he was identified. Had he not been
identified, you and I couldn't be saved
through him even to this day. He had to
be identified for us all. And then I
want to show you that I would one last
time preach that Jesus was the
ostracized. If he hadn't been
ostracized, he wouldn't have been our
savior. Not only did he need to be re
received, he had to be popular. John had
to plow the way. He had to be known. His
message had to get out there. But then
the tide had to turn against him. The
tide had to turn. He had to become the
bad guy in people's mind. And he had to
become the devil to some people. Some
people had to decide he must die. He had
to be felt that way. John 8:48, "You are
a Samaritan and have a demon." They said
to him, "When you call a man a demon,
you can't say much worse than that about
a man, can you? I think you got a demon
in you. You're so wicked." Imagine
saying that to the son of God. In John
10 and verse 33, it says, "For a a good
work, we do not stone you, but for
blasphemy. And because you being a man,
make yourself God. Oh yes, the tide had
to turn. He had to be ostracized. He had
to feel statements like that from the
crowd. People had to say bad things
about him. And all my life in any bad
thing that's ever been said about me
because I was preaching. Usually it's
because I did a bad job. But either way,
I have never had the kind of ugly thing
said about me that was said about him.
Never in my entire life. But he had to
be ostracized because he had to be
crucified. I want to talk to you about
this. I would love to just have a sermon
just on this right here. But I just want
to simply say this. 1 Corinthians 1:23,
we preach Christ crucified, which is a
stumbling block to the Gentiles.
I mean to the Jews and foolishness to
the Gentiles. And to this day, it is
still that way. There are people today
that can't handle the idea that God
would send his son and allow him to be
crucified. But that's the best part of
the message. And 1 Corinthians 2:2, it
says, "I determined not to know anything
among you except Jesus Christ and him
crucified." Why? Why would that be the
most important thing that you would just
know and just teach? Because that's the
way we're saved. That's it. There is no
other way. It was said this morning at
the Lord's we there is no other way.
Jesus is it. And so not only did he have
to be received so we get the message
popularized absolutely identified. Yes.
But then he had to be ostracized but
more they had to kill him. You see if it
hadn't turned that way first of all if
he hadn't been received at all at the
beginning he'd have come with a curse.
That's what Malachi says. So, he had to
be received and then he had to be the
tide had to turn and he had to be put to
death. And if he hadn't been put to
death, you and I would still be in our
sins. That's the way we're forgiven for
he became sin that we might become the
righteousness of God in him. And then I
would want to talk about this, how he
was revitalized.
I don't know how to talk about this man
dead. Y'all know anybody been dead that
came back alive? Oh, 30 seconds, a
minute. You've heard such things. Maybe
somebody that couldn't breathe for a
while and they were they really dead,
but somebody dead for 3 days. Acts 2
verse 32. This Jesus God has risen up of
which we are all witnesses. We're
standing here with our mouth open too,
guys. We saw it.
I just love that. We saw it. And then of
course Paul, the last one, probably one
of the best witnesses of all because he
didn't even believe in him. He says in 1
Corinthians 15 1-4, "I declare to you
the gospel which I preached to you by
which you are saved. For I deliver to
you first of all that which I also
receive, that Christ died for our sins
according to scripture and that he was
buried and that he rose again the third
day according to the scripture." He goes
on to say, "And I was last of all seen
by me. I got to see him.
He was made alive. The story is true.
And that had to happen because even
though he was born of a woman, he really
wasn't ever guilty of sin.
And so to leave him dead would have been
wrong.
But finally,
I would one last time want to preach
Jesus the glorified, the one we will
see.
Acts 2:36, "Let all the house of Israel
know assuredly that God has made this
Jesus whom you crucified
both Lord and Christ, seated at the
right hand of the throne of God."
We were talking about this just a little
bit ago. Jim and I was talking about it.
Jesus seated the right hand of the
throne of God. 1 Timothy 3:16, "Great is
the mystery of godliness.
God, not a man, God was manifest in the
flesh,
justified in the spirit, seen by angels,
preached among the Gentiles, believed on
in the world, and received up into
glory.
And he will return."
So that's this core. That's the whole
story. I mean,
prophesied, popularized, identified,
ostracized, crucified, revitalized,
glorified.
There's so much of that. I mean, we
could be here days on any one of those
points, couldn't we? Just days. There's
that much. And we all know it. Just days
and days of truth that unfold in each of
those ideas.
Galatians 3:1, before whose eyes Jesus
was portrayed as crucified.
One of the things it's clear to me now,
I mean, you see it in Acts chapter 2,
but Galatians chapter 3, you see, one of
the things that they talked about is
Jesus crucified for us over and over
again. It needs to be the center of our
teaching. Not just Jesus, that's
wonderful. He taught wonderful things
that he died for us
in Acts 2:es 37-41.
Now when they heard this that they had
put him to death. When they heard this
and that he was risen. Now when they
heard this they were cut to the heart
and said men and brethren what shall we
do? See it wasn't their sin and we're
okay but all of our sins put him there.
Men and brethren, what shall we do?
That's our message. That's our question
today. What what will we do? If this is
really true that that mankind put the
son of God to death, how can we fix it?
You can't you can't fix that.
He fixed it. But then he tells us what
to do to receive it. Verse 38, he
says,"Repent and let every one of you be
baptized in the name of Jesus Christ for
the remission of sins, and you shall
receive the gift of the Holy Spirit. For
the promise, this whole thing, the whole
thing from beginning to end." There was
a promise. This promise is to you and to
your children and all who are far off.
That includes us, as many as the Lord
our God will call. And then verse 40, he
went on to say to them, "Be saved from
this perverse generation." Verse 41,
"And those who gladly received his word
were baptized." The same day about 3,000
souls were added.
Of all the things, if I could give
somebody something, you know, it's nice
to get gifts. We're looking forward to
Christmas. Everybody wants a gift. It's
nice to give a gift. It's nice to
receive a gift. Of all the things, if
you could wrap it up and hand it to
somebody,
wouldn't Jesus be the best gift you
could give anybody? You just wrap him
up.
Hand it to
give them Jesus. I'm old now. I'm
getting old.
So, I remember a song from 1975.
How many of y'all born before 75?
How many were born after 75?
Wow.
So, Scott Wesley Brown,
73 years old
now, a singer, songwriter from
California, 25 albums out there. Toured
50 countries.
I don't think he's doing that anymore.
73.
He sang this in 1975, 1976.
I was uh 18 19 years old preaching high
school. I was preaching all the county
churches in our little county, Walker
County and and then I went off to school
that year and ended up meeting a little
girl called Debbie Sheisby
and uh studying to preach
and uh just just so you know uh
my wife's come from very conservative
background. She used to wear a thing on
her head. None of y'all do that, but she
used to Oh, no. You'd have to be there.
You know what?
I didn't I didn't fight her on it. I
said, "If that's what makes you happy,
you wear that back, right?"
It's conservative background, male, all
of them.
But this was something I remember. This
was one of the songs I remember from
back there.
I could wish you joy and peace to last a
whole lifelong.
And I could wish you sunshine or a
cheerful little song. Or wish you all
the happiness that this life could
bring. But I wish you Jesus.
But I wish you Jesus.
But I wish you Jesus more than anything.
I could wish you leaves of gold and may
your path be smooth. And I could wish
you treasures or that all your dreams
come true. And I could wish you
paradise. That every day be spring.
But I wish you Jesus.
But I wish you Jesus. But I wish you
Jesus more than anything. I could wish
you joy and peace to last a whole
lifelong.
And I could wish you sunshine
or a cheerful little song or wish you
all the happiness that this life could
bring.
But I wish you Jesus
more than anything.
So if I was going to give you one
lesson,
and this would be the last time I ever
spoke to you,
I wish you Jesus.
And I hope you find him if you haven't.
He will change everything.
