There were two nuns that worked in a
hospital years and years ago
and they uh decided they'd take their
car. They didn't have much money, but
they decided they'd go out for a drive
in the country. Y'all don't remember
that. Back before air conditioners and
cars, people used to do that. Just drive
around. Anybody remember that? Anybody
remember driving around on a anyway? So
they went out in their car driving
around and by and by they didn't pay
attention. They ran out of gas.
Now what are they going to do? So
they're stuck on the side of the road
and suddenly a truck driver comes by.
Now the truck driver uh not one of the
semis, just a a box truck. And he says,
"Well, I' I've got gas in my tank, but I
don't have any container to put it in."
So, they looked around in the c their
car and they only thing they had because
he worked at the hospital was a bed pan
and said, "Well, we could put it into
that." So, they siphoned. Do y'all know
what siphoning gas is? Had a mouthful of
gas several times doing that, but so
siphoned gas and put it in the bed pan.
And the truck driver says, "But I'm I'm
behind on my trip. I got to go." So, he
just left. said, "Y'all can take care of
this." Sure. So, these two nuns are now
filling up their car with this bed pan,
and a police officer comes by.
And he gets out, scratches his head, and
says, "Um, ladies, um, I don't believe
that's going to work, but I admire your
faith
filling up the car with a bed pan. I
don't think that's going to work,
sisters. Um, I think that's
He thought something that wasn't really
happening. I think we have a problem
though. We
have to see things almost to believe
them.
Martin Luther said, "Faith
can see the invisible."
That's what I want to encourage today.
Now, walking by faith and not by sight
is criticized a lot by people who don't
understand what we're saying. It can
sound ignorant that you have a fairy
tale faith and you believe in nonsense
that there's no evidence for it. It can
sound like that to some. To some, it can
sound like elitism
that you're so well off, you're so
sheltered, you're so privileged that you
don't have to worry about seeing what's
going to happen next. You can just make
it. you're you're that well off or it
can sound withdrawn
that you're not willing to engage
yourself in this world. You're so so
heavenly minded you're of no earthly
good and you don't care about what's
going on here. So that happens. People
make criticism.
Swindoll
said this to walk by faith does not mean
you stop thinking. To trust God does not
imply becoming sloven or lazy or
apathetic.
What a distortion of biblical faith. You
and I need to trust God for our
finances. But that is no license to
spend foolishly. Acting foolishly then
expecting God to bail you out isn't
faith. It's presumption.
So I'm not advocating for that today. I
do think you need to consider it though
because some people would
maybe you remember the motto of soldiers
during the revolutionary war and this
makes sense. Trust in God but keep your
powder dry.
So you need to be engaged in this world
but at the same time walk by faith and
not by sight. It sounds like a hard path
to walk. It is to some degree.
There is a kind of sight though that we
need to recognize that does exist that
has nothing to do with these two things.
And that's an important thing. And by
the way, that exists in this world to
some degree. I mean, we see evidences of
it here. You've probably heard of the
JWSD, the James Webb's Space Telescope.
It is designed, it's out beyond the moon
now. I don't know if y'all know any keep
up with science, but it's out beyond the
moon making kind of a figure eight thing
behind the moon all the time on the
other side of the moon. And what it does
is it uses the moon to keep the sun from
blinding it. It's out there. But what
the goal of it is is to see in the
infrared, which we can't really see. I
mean, that's how they've actually seen
this threeey atlas. If you know anything
about that, that's going on right now.
That's uh something coming in really
fast. 87,000
kilometer. I think it's 87 kilometers
per second coming at us. But anyway,
they're watching stuff like that. Things
that you and I can't see. So, we know
that's in this world. But in the
spiritual realm, that's absolutely true.
In Mark 8:1 18, Jesus said, "Having
eyes, do you not see?" So you can have
eyes and not see spiritual things.
In Matthew 15 and verse 14, it says, "If
the blind leads the blind, both will
fall in a ditch." Well, obviously he's
not talking about a physical ditch
there, but he's using that as an
illustration, fall into a spiritual
ditch. In John 14:9, he who has eyes uh
has seen me has seen the father. If
you've seen Jesus, by the way, you don't
have to have seen Jesus to have seen
Jesus. You and I have seen Jesus without
ever having seen Jesus. In John 20 29,
it says, "Blessed are those who have not
seen and yet believe." That's you and
me. So, we've seen him by faith. Hebrews
11:es 1-7 has an interesting thing or
two to say. Verse one says, "Faith is
the evidence of things not seen." So the
fact that you have faith in and of
itself is an evidence of things that are
not seen. And then it goes on to say in
verse three, the things which are seen
were not made of things which are
visible. So all that exists is made of
things that cannot be seen. In verse
seven, by faith, Noah being warned of
things not seen. There never been a
flood before, and I've never seen a
flood that cover the earth. So that's a
thing not seen. And so in your text that
was read a moment ago 2 Corinthians 5
and verse 7 says, "For we walk by faith,
not by sight." That's the call. So how
does the Lord get seen
when we walk by faith, not by sight?
In John 9:es 40 and 41, the people
responding to Jesus said to him, "Are
you saying we're blind?"
Interesting.
If you're not aware that you can be
blind, that's a blindness within and of
itself.
Did you hear me?
So, if you're convinced you couldn't
possibly be blind, that's a blindness
within itself.
So, I want us to look at that concept. I
just want to see three little lessons.
This is not a complicated thing today.
Hopefully this will be a blessing to
you. We want to look at it because I
think we need to live this way. And
right now we need to live this way
desperately. Number one,
we see the father if we see by faith the
internals,
the stuff on the inside of you and on
the inside of me.
Things that no one can see if we can see
them. And we're going to stay just in
the latter part of 2 Corinthians chapter
4 and encourage you if you have your
Bibles you might want to look at it. But
it basically says this. Therefore, we do
not lose heart. There are reasons to
lose heart. There are discouraging
things that happen in this world. You
know that many of them.
But we don't lose heart. And people out
there, they can lose heart. People who
don't know Jesus, they can lose heart.
But no matter what happens, listen to
me. I've heard it said twice now. Rough
week. No matter what happens, we do not
lose heart because we don't see the way
everybody else sees.
Even though our outward man is
perishing,
anybody looked in the mirror lately?
Yet the inward man is being renewed day
by day.
Faith sees the internal realities
of the perishing
versus the renewal.
There's something going on inside of
you. If you're a Christian,
you're not getting weaker, you're
getting stronger.
In 2 Corinthians 5:es 5-8, it says, "Now
he who has prepared us for this very
thing is God who also has given us the
spirit as a guarantee. So we are always
confident knowing that while we are at
home in the body, we are absent from the
Lord. For we walk by faith, not by
sight. We are confident. We don't just
think this, we know this. We are
confident. Yes. Well pleased. Rather to
be absent from the body and to be
present with the Lord. Amen.
Rather be in heaven right now. Amen. If
I had a choice, if I could just go
there. Amen. Go there right now. Go
there right now. Ephesians 4:23. And be
renewed in the spirit of your mind. So
this becomes so real to us with each
year that passes. It becomes more real.
If it's not so real to you right now,
you're probably young.
I'm not young anymore.
I've got less days ahead of me than I've
got behind me.
That's a real thing. That's not a
makebelieve thing. Many of you sitting
here will see unless the Lord comes will
see me pass away. You will see it. You
will see it happen. Not physically with
your eyes, but you will see it happen. I
will pass away unless the Lord comes.
Amen. You will too, by the way. You just
It's hard for you to imagine that. And
so you look here and I got gray now. A
good bit of it. Anybody out there got
some gray? Got some gray. Some of you
got three gray hairs. So you me. Yeah.
Right.
So I'm just telling you straight up, the
outward man is perishing.
But something's going on on the inside
and it's getting stronger
and stronger
and stronger. Getting ready to go. Amen.
Getting ready to go.
Getting all suited up. Yes, ma'am. Yes,
sir. Getting suited up to go. So, the
Lord is showing us the father and really
seeing. We see him by faith the
internals of what's going on. Thank you,
Lord. Thank you, Lord. We're getting
started. Thank you, Lord. Because I
would hate to be 20 facing what I'm
facing right now. I would not be ready
for it. Amen. Can you imagine
being your younger self facing what
you're facing right now? You know, God's
at work somehow doing something, ain't
he? Got you ready for this second
lesson. We see the father if we see by
faith the incomparables. The very next
verse if you're with me in the text
looking at your Bible and not up there
verse 17 says for our light affliction.
Now you hear that our light affliction.
Did you hear that? I don't care how
burdened you are this morning. It's
light.
I don't care how painful it is this
morning. It's light.
I don't care if you're struggling to
just put one foot in front of the other.
It's light. Listen to him. For our light
affliction, which is but for a moment,
it's just a moment
is working for us a far more exceeding
and eternal weight of glory. Now, I want
you to imagine that. I don't even know
what that means. It says it's heavy.
Glory is heavy. It's got a weight to it.
It's weighty and important.
So faith sees the incomparable realities
of the light affliction
versus the weighty glory. So the light
affliction versus the weight of glory.
That's the comparison. light weighty.
Interesting. In 2 Corinthians 5:es 2-4,
read it a moment ago, but I'm gonna read
it again. For in this we grown. Oh yeah,
we grown.
I found Is anybody like me? I found I'm
grunting now. Anybody know what I'm
talking about? I'm grunting and not even
aware of it. Anybody else doing that?
You get up in the morning. Uh, you move.
Oh, is anybody else doing that? I'm
like, man, I don't remember doing that.
That's new. It's like grunting all over
the place. All right. So, for in this we
grown earnestly desiring to be clothed
with our habitation which is from
heaven, God's going to give us some
body. Verse three, if indeed having been
clothed, we shall not be found naked.
Oh, no. We're not just spirits in
heaven. We're more than that. Verse
four, for we who are in this tent groan
being burdened. Oh, not because we want
to be unclothed, but further clothed.
We're groaning because we want that that
mortality may be swallowed up by life.
Oh, that sounds good. that end.
Romans 8:18, for I consider that the
sufferings.
Do you suffer? Of course you do. You
look around you. You know what you see?
Sufferers.
You think you think you're the only one
suffering here this morning? You've got
something you're suffering about. Every
person around you suffering with
something. And some of you, it's light
right now. And it's been worse.
or it's light and it's going to be
worse. But in either case, we all
suffer. Amen. Walls, we all suffer. For
I consider that the sufferings of this
present time are not worthy to be
compared with the glory which shall be
revealed in us. Not just the glory we'll
see. Listen to me, brethren, class.
Listen. We will see glory. We will see
the glorious Lord. We'll see the Father.
We'll see heavenly Jerusalem. We'll see
the city 1500 miles by 1500 miles by
1500 miles. Yeah, we'll see the wonders
of heaven and the greatness. Yes, we'll
see that. But that's not the best one.
We'll see the glory that's within us.
I'll see the glory that's within you.
a glory I've never seen. You've never
seen.
One of the things you need to think
about is, you know, sometimes bad people
never have a problem. You never notice
that bad people never have a problem.
They healthy, live to be 110 and rich
and do whatever they want to do. You
know, the reason that's true is he wants
that person to believe in nothing.
and he's an enemy. And if he ever begins
to see by faith, he would be such a
strong advocate for God. But no, the
devil's keeping him wrapped up in his
sin, unaware he even as a sinner. And
that's the goal of that. But on the
other hand, you see good people, you see
good people suffer. And what is the
devil trying to do there? He's trying to
make you give up your faith. You see
that? Bless the wicked,
curse the righteous. You see it? Say
listen to me. I'm not making something
up here. This is going on all around you
all the time. You got a bunch of stuff
going wrong in your life. The devil's
trying to take your faith away from you
and you want to, you see that ungodly so
and so down the road living like a king
and you're going, "But
the devil didn't want him to turn
around, but he wants you to turn around.
So, what I'm trying to get to is is that
this becomes our aim as we know more and
more about glory as we get older. And
you know how we know more and more about
glory as we get older? Listen to me
class. I know more people over there
almost than I know over here.
I know a lot of people that I've gone to
church with that are over there. I could
list names for probably an hour. People
I've gone to church with. Remember,
glory is getting bigger for me on the
other side. Friends, you never know.
Good godly women, good godly men.
Glory's glor glowing on the other side.
So many brothers over there. The Lord
shows us the father when we see by faith
the incomparables.
You can't compare your trouble with the
glory. It's for a moment. That's we'll
get to the next point.
We see the father if we see by faith the
eternals. Look at verse 18. While we do
not look at the things which are seen,
but at the things which are not seen.
For the things which are seen are
temporary.
This stuff temporary.
But the things which are not seen are
eternal. The really important stuff, the
big stuff, you can't even see it. That's
the big stuff. You say, "Well, what do
you mean?" like God,
you can't see God, right?
Faith sees the eternal realities, which
is temporal
compared to eternal.
You can't compare.
You just can't compare. In 2 Corinthians
5:1, it said this, "For we know that if
our earthly house, this tent," why would
you call it a tent? Yber, you ever spend
a night in a tent? You want to stay in a
tent? Would you like to live in a tent?
I mean, it gets mildewed right right
away. I mean, it really starts smelling
bad. And I'm not talking about you. I'm
just saying, you know, it gets droopy
and, you know, the cords start pulling
up. It's bad. And you want to move it as
quick as you can because it gets bad.
But
this tent is destroyed.
You hear me? A tent goes away quickly.
It's destroyed. But we have a building
from God, a house not made with hands,
eternal in the heavens.
2 Corinthians 3:1 says this, "For if
what is passing away
was glorious,
what remains is much more glorious."
You can't compare
something that here for that long with
something that's here forever.
You can't compare.
There's no comparison between the two.
You can try. There are some wonderful
things here. Listen to me. There's some
wonderful things. Nature. I mean, this
world is absolutely beautiful, isn't it?
Don't you just love it? I mean, we we we
fuss about the world, but we all love
it. If you had a chance to if you're
sick and you had a chance to take a pill
and you'd be better tomorrow and you
never have any more trouble, you'd take
it just to be able to stay here. So, as
bad as it is, as much as we complain
about it, we'd do almost anything to
stay here. We really would. But the
truth is is all of this is nothing.
It's not eternal. Trees don't last. The
grass withers. It all goes away in time.
It's just destroyed around us. So this
becomes more comforting when you become
aware of the glories that are coming. So
I I think there's some beautiful things.
Nature, music, art.
Only thing I know out of that I know
that's going through is love. Love is
forever.
But it's even more glorious the things
that are eternal. So the the Lord shows
us the father when we see by faith
eternal. Because when we begin to see
that there has to be something eternal.
When we begin to see that, then suddenly
we become aware there had to be an
eternal being that did this. There had
to be. There's no other way around it.
We see the father. So that's the lesson.
It's really a simple lesson. We need to
develop this faith that doesn't see by
sight, but a faith in the internals
because the externals are fading. A
faith in incomparables because the
temporary stuff, the suffering is not to
be compared to the weight of glory. And
we need to see the eternals, the
temporary and the eternal is not
comparable either.
Jean Henry Feb
in the early 1900s
he was doing experiments on the pine
processionary caterpillar. I've never
had one. Seen pictures of them pine
processionary caterpillar. And he was
the first guy to ever do any experiment
with them. So he decided because they
tended to follow each other, you know,
in a procession. That's why they're
called processionary caterpillars. So he
got a big pot and he kind of put a bunch
of processionary caterpillars around the
rim. So there was actually a continual
line of processionary caterpillars and
they tended to follow each other. So he
wanted to see what they'd do and he put
their food in the center. He figured
that even a processionary caterpillar
would would go, "hm, we need to eat. I'm
getting out of this line." Right. But
they followed each other and he watched
them and he thought, "Well, you probably
an hour or two they'd wake up and say,
you know, I'm tired of walking. I'm
going to go eat some of those leaves
over there." They smell them or
something. No, he kept going. Then it
was two hours. Then it was a day and
they just kept walking around. Then it
was like a week. They hadn't eaten. They
just kept following each other. And
finally, they began to die. They just
curled up and died. And there wasn't
anything to keep them from turning away
for a moment and getting something to
eat and getting back in the line. But
no, no, no, no. They just kept
following. Zig Ziggler took that years
ago and he simply said this. A lot of
people confuse activity
with getting somewhere.
just so busy doing my stuff
and not actually going anywhere with it
because you can't see. All you're doing
is following the end of that other
caterpillar
and that's your life.
Just following the next thing and don't
see the bigger picture.
The NPR had an article about a
phenomenon. There is a type of ant.
There are army ants. You don't ever want
to mess with them. You We don't have
any, I don't think, in America. But you
never want to mess with army ants. They
They can kill you. I mean, it's bad.
They're mean. So, there is a type of
army ant that's absolutely blind all of
its life. Can't see at all. Can't see.
Totally blind. So, what they do, all
ants do this, but they do it really
well. They put down a chemical as they
move around so the other ants can figure
out where they are. and then work with
together. So they work in total darkness
and but they follow each other with this
chemical. Well, that's great except
sometimes an ant leaving that little
especially the lead ants out here will
accidentally make a mistake and they'll
end up going back and looping back into
the chain of army ants and they'll get
in this loop and all of a sudden now the
whole group's in the loop and they're
marching and they're marching and
they're back to the processionary
caterpillars and they're marching and
they're marching and they're marching
and they're marching and they're
marching and they're marching And they
call it a death spiral. And they
literally march themselves to death. Are
you marching yourself to death? Do you
see anything other than what's in front
of you? If you're just following your
day out and it's just about making
another dollar and that's all your
life's about, do you not understand that
you're just in that loop?
If that's all life is about, we are the
most pitiful people on the planet.
It can't be just about that.
William Bordon
died 106 years ago.
I'm going give you three things he's
known for. He's not known for much.
William Bordon was born to money.
Family had plenty of money. Let me give
you an example. This is a long time ago.
106 years ago, 1887. He graduated from
high school. His parents gave him an
around the world trip. Did your parents
give you around the world trip for your
graduation from high school? Mine didn't
either. I don't even remember a gift a
little bit. I don't think I got 10
bucks. So, I mean nothing
round the world trip as his gift.
But they made a mistake in his travels.
He began to see how poor people were
starving around the world. and he saw
how few people actually knew Jesus. It
so affected him that he came back with
the decision to become a missionary and
someone who would help these people who
are starving. He wrote in his Bible no
reserves
basically saying I'm going to take all I
got and help everybody I can until I got
nothing left.
But his family did not want that. They
sent him to Yale. He did great. He was
top of his class and everything. He was
super smart. I mean, there was nothing
he couldn't do. I mean, he's one of
those guys. He could just do it. He
could just do it. And he's athletic. Oh,
he's athletic. He's involved in
athletics. He was just good. He could
just do it. He's super smart, super
physical. And so the family said, "Man,
you are so talented. Bordon, it would be
a mistake for you to go and be a
missionary. We serve that, you know,
preachers and missionaries, that's for
sick people. We don't we don't do and
wimpy people who can't play sports
really well. No, that's who that's for,
not for you. And so, please don't do
that. He wrote in his Bible, "No
retreats.
I'm going to do mission work."
So, he determined to go to China.
So in 1912 he headed out to China. But
back in 1912, getting to China wasn't
the easiest trip on the planet. So he
had to go by way of Egypt.
In April of 1913, he got sick in Egypt.
April the 9th, 1913,
he died in Egypt, never having been a
missionary, never having done any of the
things I just told you he was going to
do.
But just before he died, he wrote in the
fly leaf of his Bible the third
statement,
no regrets.
That's a life of faith. Listen to me. No
reserves. I'm going to give it all.
No retreats. You can't dissuade me.
No regrets. Even if I die doing it.
No reserves.
No retreats.
No regrets. No reserves.
No retreats.
No regrets. Let's live our lives. No
reserves.
No retreats. No regrets. You hear me?
That's walking by faith. When you really
begin to see God and not just your imag
internals when you see God changing you,
the incomparables, you begin to see
what's really valuable and then you
begin to see the eternals.
If you do that, you can walk by faith.
If you've never done that, you need to
begin. It will help you. Maybe you need
to come forward, repent of your sins,
confess the name of Christ, be baptized
today. That might be a need of yours. Or
it may just be a need of yours to
suddenly decide, you know, I believe I
need to see things more spiritually and
walk by faith and not by sight. And
maybe I need to have Bordon's
conviction,
no reserves,
no retreats,
and no regrets if I lose it all.
