So tonight I'll just tell you what I'm
going to be talking about. I'm going to
be talking about SABC, Southern Africa
Bible College, and I'm going to be
talking a little bit about Kempton Park
Church of Christ and then talk a little
bit about the family, a little bit about
Africa. Give you a little bit of heads
up on that. Uh when we were in Africa,
it wasn't SABC, it was SABS, and we
called it SABS, Southern Africa Bible
School. and um it's where I taught for
about six years when we were there. Um
met a hunter on the way back from
Africa. I thought this was interesting.
This actually happened. I'm not making
up a story here. So, we were in um New
York flying back and uh I don't know
Deb, she's the friendly one. I don't
know why she's talking to him, but so
she was talking to him. So, I got stuck
in the conversation. So, uh that's kind
of the way it works with our family.
She's friendly and I'm not. But, uh
she's talking to this guy and uh his
wife and he was a hunter and he liked to
bow hunt. He said he wanted so
desperately to be able to go to Africa
and hunt with a bow.
And I'm sitting there going, "That
sounds dangerous to me." And uh I kind
of warned. He said, "Well, what's the
toughest one?" I said, "Well, probably a
Cape Buffalo." And uh he said, "Yeah,
I'd like to hunt that." And I said,
"Don't recommend that. Not with a bow.
Get a bigger gun." And then be slow
about taking that one on. Been a mini a
hunter killed by Cape Buffalo Buffalo.
So, um but any well, what's the most
difficult animal to hunt in Africa? And
I thought a minute and I said polar
bear. So, uh,
so, uh, The Lion Sleeps Tonight. Y'all
know this song. Would you like me to
sing it?
Yes. Okay. So, uh, I'm going to tell you
the background to this song that you
probably didn't know. This song actually
originates in South Africa. It actually
originates by a Zulu guy. Uh y'all don't
know what Zulu means, but a couple of
you might know what Zulu means, but u so
uh the guy's name was Solomon Linda and
he wrote it back in 1939.
And this is the song that came out right
here. You see the mu be? Okay, that
turned into whim. Okay, that's not the
way you say it. But any rate, wimbleway
is not a word, but it's in your song.
It's not even a word. It's made up word.
So, uh, what happened is originally this
was composed by this guy. Uh, his name
is, uh, Solomon Linda. He's long passed
away now. It was his, uh, tune. If you
listen to that, you would hear the that
little high thing going on. Uh, they
they recorded that without a rehearsal.
And it's great. You get a chance, look
that up, listen to it. And I didn't
think that was appropriate for us to
listen to tonight. But what was
interesting is that was in 1939
and then uh someone went to South Africa
and for 10 shillings. That's not a lot
of money. Uh got him to sell the rights
of that song and then went to America.
Uh he was not aware of what that meant
when he sold it. He was popular for
putting this record out. It was very
popular at the time back in the 30s and
the 40s. Uh then it was unearthed by a
guy named Pete Seager. And then uh and
that that was with the Weavers, but you
know it women uh decade later in 1951 by
the tokens. That was 1951.
So all y'all hearing this, but then it
became popular again. Uh I mean it's
been recorded covered by about 150
different artists. But in 1994, if you
remember, a certain little, some of you
kids might remember, it's called The
Lion King. Anybody remember that? So,
The Lion King. And so, that they got the
song uh it earned estimated 15 million
in royalties. Now, here's the bad part.
Solomon Linda got none of that. 10
shillings was it all he ever got. He
died that way. But then later his family
uh sued um Disney for an untold amount.
We don't know. They reached some kind of
out of the court settlement. At least
the family got something. But uh Solomon
Linder p was perceived uh this lack of
recognition. He his name was never on
any of the paperwork or anything and u
his fortune in his lifetime he never got
anything. But it was deemed an example
of racial exploitation. And I think this
probably was true. But that's the
history of the song and how uh it was
actually South Africa and the Zulus.
Interesting. Zulu is quite a large tribe
in Africa. There are uh more than this
but there's at least 11 tribes in South
Africa and uh Causa is probably the
largest and that was Mandela. And reason
I mention all that is
you think you know Africa. I promise you
I live there. I don't know Africa.
Okay. Africa is still a mystery to me in
many respects. And so if you think you
understand Africa, think again. Um so as
a church all we do, all we say, all we
think, all we support should have its
focus on Jesus. And so tonight I'm going
to try to do that. John 12:21, "Sir, we
wish to see Jesus." I think that's what
we should be about always. And John
12:32, "And I, if I am lifted up from
the earth, will draw all peoples to
myself." So I want to try to make the
focus on him and yet tell you about the
work we did. Uh, there basically three
messages. I'll tell you what, going to
talk about SABC, Kemp, and some of the
family and what that relates to. So
let's look at that. Number one,
uh they reported Jesus' communication.
Whenever uh uh we read the scriptures,
that was what he said was what was being
reported. Listen to Luke chapter 4. Then
he went down to Capernaum, a city of
Galilee, and was teaching them in the sa
uh them on the Sabbath. So that's
plural. He'd been teaching them there
for a while. Verse 32. And they were
astonished at his teaching, for his word
was with authority. So this word got
out. He's teaching in that area for
several Sabbaths. We don't know how
many. Verse 33. Now in the synagogue,
there was a man who had a spirit of an
unclean demon. And he cried out with a
loud voice, saying, "Let us alone. What
if we to do with you, Jesus of Nazareth?
Did you come to destroy us? I know who
you are, the Holy One of God." But Jesus
rebuked him, saying, "Be quiet and come
out of him." And when the demon had
thrown him in their midst, it came out
of him and did not hurt him. See, that's
the power of his word. What he was
saying, he had authority. Verse 36, then
they were all amazed and spoke among
themselves, saying, "What a word this
is." For with authority and power he
commands the unclean spirits, and they
come out, and the report about him went
out into every place in the surrounding
region. He' been speaking and teaching.
They were stunned by his authority, the
way he spoke. when he spoke to the
demons, stunned by the way he
communicated and all he did is just say
simple words. So Jesus communication
power is what needs to be reported.
That's the reason I think it's important
to talk about the school. The school is
a three-year program of teaching the the
New Testament, the Old Testament, and
the languages. And um let me tell you a
little bit what I can learn. What I
learned in being there is this. So you
have a first year, second year, third
year. So, it's like a a law degree if
you go through all three, if you know
what I mean, or medical degree. It's
kind of like that. And so, they felt you
were adept at being able to be in
ministry if you got all three years. But
a lot of people just go for the one year
or two years. What I learned about first
years, and this is so sometimes you'll
hear me say that person talks like a
first year student. So, a first year
student, this was what was interesting
to me is first year students ask
questions to teach the teacher things.
Second year student ask questions to
find out answers.
Third year student did not ask
questions.
All right. So SNBC when I taught there
which was from 1990 to 1996
they averaged about 20 students maybe
25. The majority of which were I would
say mostly white. It wasn't all white,
but it was mostly white. I'd say over
50% at that point. It's now fully
accredited accredited degree. So, you
get a full degree now from the
universities there. And when we were
there, they had 57 students, none of
which were whacked. So, it's really
shifted, which is the direction it
needed to shift. And it was all African
students. So, that was great. Uh so now
everybody's trusting the school to do
what it's supposed to be doing. Uh
graduates uh were 20 about 20 first
years. Uh I don't know exactly how many
seconds and thirds but there were about
20 first years. So we were at the
lecture ship. Now at the lecture ship
you're fix to see uh they had this was
graduation night and this is the student
body on stage.
Love
sing
because that wasn't English. So, uh, so
basically that's Tatau. He's a really
great guy. In fact, if you ever go look
it up, Tat's lessons, probably the best
lesson in the whole lecture show, the
guy with his back to you. Awesome guy.
Uh he he's written about four books,
too. He's smart as a whip. Um so there
about 46 speakers at the lecture ship.
Uh and so that's it's not a little thing
as it's a big production. Hundreds come.
Uh that I was one of them by the way.
Um, so and got to see some old faces.
This guy over
that didn't work. That didn't work.
Where did I press there? Oops, wrong
way.
That guy over there, he's one of the
elders of uh the congregation that
supported this work from the beginning
as Memorial Drive in Houston. And uh
also a great speaker if you ever get a
chance to go and listen to some of that.
Um, so basically, uh, they serve the
Churches of Christ in South Africa and I
think I think they're doing a fabulous
job. I really do. Second Timothy 2 and
verse two, all the things that you've
heard from me among many witnesses,
commit these to faithful men who will be
able to teach others also. That's their
point because the power is in the
teaching. Now you you say, well, it was
power is in Jesus. Yeah, but ultimately
the power is in what he taught the word
which is what they're doing. So if you
ever want to support something, any of
the schools in any of the countries and
we have quite a few could receive your
help always and uh it's what keeps the
church going throughout the world and
that includes schools here in America
for the most part who are teaching and
training uh ministers. That was uh where
we worked when we were there. Okay.
Second thing, uh they reported Jesus'
cleansing power. Not only his
communication power, but his cleansing
power. In Luke 5 12-15, it says this.
And it happened when he was in a certain
city that behold a man who was full of
leprosy saw Jesus and he fell on his
face and implored him saying, Lord, if
you're willing, you can make me clean.
Then he put out his hand and touched
him. Something you weren't supposed to
do, saying, "I am willing. be cleansed.
And immediately the leprosy left him,
and he charged him to tell no one, but
go and show yourself to the priests and
make an offering for your cleansing as a
testimony to them, just as Moses
commanded. However, uh the report again,
a report went out around concerning him
all the more, and great multitudes came
to together to hear and to be healed by
him of their infirmities. So interesting
his teaching was reported and now his
cleansing power was reported. So Jesus
cleansing power should be reported. So I
want to talk about what I perceive
uh his cleansing power having changed a
congregation over there. Now I don't
know what you know about Kemp Park or
the fact I mean we don't support Kemp
Park as a church. I'm telling you what
we did and why we're a part of it. it is
my brother-in-law who preaches there and
so I have some issues with the idea of
that we would even support it. So that
would might be seen as a little bit of
nepotism. So you got to be careful about
that kind of thing. But however uh what
had happened to the church, it was not a
new congregation. It was a mainline
Church of Christ for years and then
their preacher leaned more and more and
more into Baptist doctrine.
And so, uh, he didn't believe baptism
was for the remission of sins. Uh, they
began to use instruments of music and
let, uh, and have a, what do you call
it? A praise team with instruments and
we're having women, uh, lead lead in the
services and that sort of thing. So, he
passed away. I won't name him because I
don't want to say anything that sounds
ugly that way, but he passed away and
his family kind of moved away, at least
part of it. And so Paul had asked me,
well, well, what should I do? And I
said, well, uh, you got to change it.
You got to make it right. And but don't
do it too quick. Now, I'm going to tell
you that I believe I was wrong. I was
right for encouraging to change it, but
I think I was wrong for encouraging to
to do it slowly and try not to run
people off. And I'll tell you why. It's
because it didn't really work. It didn't
accomplish what we had hoped. But so,
uh, they gave up the instrument and he
started teaching that baptism was
essential again. And, um, things like
that changed.
Um,
so two years later, the people that they
were trying to keep from leaving that
were a part of that all left. They all
left. And before they left, they tried a
coup. So, y'all don't know about ugly
things in church, and that's because
your eldership's protected you. But ugly
things do happen in the church. So, they
tried a coup. Uh, couldn't accomplish
it. Paul was a little too strong for
them and the elders that still existed a
little too strong and so they gave up
and left and pulled others away. You
might remember Paul was here um about a
year or two ago. Uh the Sunday he was
here, they were down to six
six people and they had all pulled away.
Now, uh, and by the way, it was it was
predominantly white. The congregation
was now the congregation is about 30%
black and I mean about 70% black, about
30% white. Maybe not even that high, but
and now the congregation's back up to 70
to 100 on a Sunday. 70 on a low Sunday,
100 on a good Sunday. It seems that the
brethren around had left and couldn't
find a good church and they they were
trying to meet themselves in little
bitty places and homes and the like
because they had basically abandoned
what we believe and they heard that they
were going back and so a lot of them
come back but they baptized tens of
baptisms but honestly u me suggesting
trying to help him for not losing people
didn't work
that tells me something I don't know if
it tells you this, but it tells me that
liberal people are not as kind as you
think they are.
Yeah. Anyway, Galatians 6:1,
brethren, if a man is overtaken in any
trespass, you who are spiritual, restore
such a one in a spirit of gentleness,
considering yourself lest you also be
tempted. So, what I've discovered is
dividers divide.
So if you're ever a part in the future
of a church that somebody gets the
bright idea that you need to pull away
and form a congregation that's more
faithful,
beware of those people. Uh most of the
time the group that pulls away is a
group of dividers and they can't get
along with each other and you'll end up
splitting from them later. Dividers
divide. But I'm grateful that to report
to you that they're doing great. That's
pretty good situation right there in my
opinion that uh they back up strength
and going on that you should know about
it even though uh it's just a you can
contribute to it even though it's not a
ministry of our congregation
particularly.
Then I want to tell you about this part.
Uh they reported Jesus carrying power.
Luke chapter 7. Um let me show you this.
Thought you'd want to see it. This is
their congregation.
You notice it's pretty full. It's about
all in hold.
&gt;&gt; Okay, let me show you this a little bit.
This is Paul. Caught him at a really
good point there. Don't uh they were
baptized. This actually faith that's
part of our family. Some of our Shisby
family.
while we're there. So I want to talk to
you now about the report that uh Jesus
was carrying and he had power in his
carrying. Look at Luke chapter 7 verse
11-17. Now it happened the day after
that he went into a city called Naan and
many of his disciples went with him and
a large crowd. When he came near the
gate of the city, behold, a dead man was
being carried out, the only son of his
mother, and she was a widow. Here's the
situation. And a large crowd from the
city was with her. When the Lord saw
her, he had compassion on her and said
to her, "Do not weep." Then he came and
he touched the open coffin. And those
who carried him stood still and he
said,"Young man, I say to you, "Arise."
So he who was dead sat up and began to
speak. But that scared everybody. And he
presented him to his mother. Then fear
came upon all. I think the fear came
upon all as soon as she stood up and
began to speak. That's my opinion. And
they glorified God, saying, "A great
prophet has arisen among us, and God has
visited his people." And this report
about him went throughout all Judea and
all the surrounding regions. So the
report went out about him raising the
dead. But it was more than that. And I
think it's a report about him caring,
that he represents the God of Abraham,
the God of Isaac, the God of Jacob that
cared about a widow woman who lost her
only support, her only son that would be
able to take care of him. So I don't
think it's as much about just raising
the dead as it is about caring.
So I want to talk to you about a family.
This may not seem important to you, but
I'm not a part of the Sheesby family,
per se.
But I get to step back and watch that
family. And some of you know Mel, some
of you may remember Lois,
but uh I've watched a family
and the Sheesby family um gave a lot.
I'm not talking about money.
Um
that's been a lot a lot of sacrifices.
seen them sell all. You know that sell
all and follow me. I've seen them do
that more than once. Seen them give up
everything for the cause.
And they're a fourth generation
missionary family. By that, what I mean,
what you may not know is they are
descendants of missionaries.
They're missionaries and their family
are missionaries for four generations.
Do you know how unusual that is? And
they came not from England, not from
America. No, that part of Zimbabwe was
being evangelized by New Zealand.
Yeah. And that's where their family came
from. And so, uh, the four siblings had
not been together in 30 years.
I just think about your family and why
was that the case?
It was for the cause.
I know you probably think it's not, but
that's really it. So, there were six of
them with Mel and Lois and four
children, four siblings,
and the only reason they were able to be
reunited is because the inheritance that
Mel left. So that's they took that money
and from his death and they wanted to
get together.
Uh now in all once we got all together
there were 32 in all with wives and
children and grandchildren and there
were but my 12 which are connected to
them uh not not able to be there
obviously four siblings all in church.
There they are just at the house just
chilling.
This is their formal picture.
But they are all still together and
they're all still in church and they're
still all involved. Deb's making the
picture. That's why you don't see her.
But
that's Paul. That's his wife. That's
Steven's wife as mate. That's Stephen.
And that's Tim. And that's Tim's wife.
They're all still in church. All still
engaged. I think that's pretty
remarkable personally. So I Why do I
mention that? Because I actually think
God cares about your family.
I really do. I think he cares about your
family. He cared about this widow
and what was going on in her life. Cares
about your family.
Matthew 18:14. Even so, it is not the
will of your father who is in heaven
that one of these little ones should
perish. I think he cares about every one
of you and your little family. And so,
while this may look like, well, what
does that have to do with me? I think
the message is you need to get it. He
cares about you and he cares about yours
and your family and he wants you to be
church.
That's pretty good. Hey, pretty good
results, I think. And I've had nothing
to do with it.
Had nothing to do with me.
All right. So that's summary of that.
Well, I'm not done. So, uh, not got much
of a sermon to come from that, but I do
need to close this off. Uh, so that's
what I think got reported. His
communication power, his cleansing
power, and his caring power. I believe
those are the things that got reported.
So, I think those are the things we
should always report on. Those need to
be shared with people. David Patch and
Jeffrey uh Porcar wrote and uh y'all
remember Toto?
Yeah. Toto made it famous in 1982.
Remember this?
Now, there's a there's a line in this
that always means something to me when
I've been able to be in Africa. And it's
it is true. I hear the drums echoing
tonight, but she hears only whispers of
some quiet conversation. She's coming in
at 12:30 flat. Her moonlight wings
reflect the stars that guide me toward
salvation. I stopped and old man along
the way, hoping to find some old
forgotten words or ancient melodies. He
turned to me as if to say, "Hurry, boy
is waiting there for you. It's going to
take a lot to drag me away from you.
There's nothing that a hundred men or
more could ever do. I bless the rains
down in Africa. Yeah, I've done that.
Gonna take some time to do the things we
never had. Yeah, when it rains because
at the high felt it's dry a lot when get
where you can't touch anything without
getting shocked and finally it starts
raining and you're thrilled. It's rough
to go four months without rain, but
that's pretty standard.
So here's I told you that song to make
this point because I think this is
important. Don't you also want to hear
99 people sing Africa by Toto? It's
something that a hundred men or more
could never do.
It's a long way to go for that.
Songs like these are great memories and
this is the truth. Tremendous amount of
memories um flood my soul. Um, so let's
go to one memory and you I've got a
closing thing on this. Okay. So,
uh, we're going to talk about the beasts
for just a moment. I don't I didn't have
a picture of the lions. We did have I
don't know what happened to the picture
of the lions. We made pictures of lions
in the dark. They were right next to our
vehicle. I don't know. There's two of
them. One had a bad paw. He was limping
along, but two males we followed along
for a mile or two. But we get captured a
couple of things. You see it? One of the
things that's interesting that and and
I'll just share this about it. If you
ever go, one of the interesting things
is you've got to develop eyes to see the
animals. And when you first get there,
you can't see the animals. Is this
right, Scott? Give me some help here.
So, uh, there's an animal here, there's
an animal here, there's an animal here,
and there's another one back over there.
So, right. So, it's you get where you
can't see them. Lions can be right in
front of you and you won't see them. You
have to develop eyes for it. And of
course, the people that are there all
the time, they see them easily. They
know exactly what to look for.
Y'all see those, right?
50 foot off the road, you ought to be
able to see it, right? A lot of times 50
Yeah. You have to be on the road. You're
not allowed to walk. So, you stay on the
road and if the animals aren't near the
road, you don't see them. Okay. And
there's so many roads. And that we
stayed at uh uh Ptorius Cook uh Burkind
Doll and we went up to Cakuza. If you
ever get a map out, look at it.
You see it? Yeah. What? What do you see?
Okay, that's good. That should say
something else. All right. You see that
animal in front of him down here? No,
there's no animal there. I just want to
make you look. Okay.
Amen.
Y'all know what those are, right?
Wild dogs. It's wild dogs.
Okay. And uh hyenas follow them around
apparently because they're better
hunters than hyenas. Hyenas are good
hunters. By the way, you think that
hyenas are just scavengers, but they are
actually really good hunters themselves.
And uh knew one guy that kept a hyena
for his pet during the war and he'd
scare people with it and he accidentally
let it get too close to a guy took his
knee off. All right.
That's a hyena. They're bigger than they
look too. They're about somewhere along
that size.
So they're pretty big. But they're built
weird, eh? Kind of built like a giraffe.
That's a baby. And there's a den right
next to the road. But I mean, literally
in the culvert right underneath it. It's
kind of cool. That's just a baby.
All right. That's the meanest thing over
there, I believe. I don't think there's
anything meaner than that thing. And a
herd of them. And that's a male. And
they're by themsel. And they're just in
a bad mood all the time. And they will
chase and find and kill a hunter. Yeah.
They plot it. Yeah. And you about can't
kill them. Yeah. And they're a lot
bigger than you think, too. Okay. A lot
bigger than you think.
This one thinks he's tough. All right.
So I want to talk to you just a moment
about beasts and then I'll be through.
Um all these beasts
have been captured,
trained and killed by men. James 3:7
says that 2 Peter 2:es 9-12 though the
Lord knows how to deliver the godly out
of temptations and reserve the unjust
under punishment for the day of judgment
and especially those who walk according
to flesh, the lust of uncleanness and
despise authority. You remember we're
talking about the authority of Jesus.
They're people that despise that. They
are presumptuous, self-willed.
They're not afraid to speak evil of
dignitaries. You remember how they were
afraid when they saw what he was capable
of raising the dead. They're not afraid.
Verse 11, whereas angels who are greater
in power and might do not bring a
reviling accusation against them before
the Lord. Verse 12. But these, like
natural brute beasts, made to be caught
and destroyed, speak evil of the things
they do not understand and will utterly
perish in their own corruption. There
are many amazing beasts in Africa. The
five big ones are the lion, the
leopards, the rhino, the elephants, and
the buffalo. But they're all just
beasts. But I'm going to tell you,
there's a lot of people who are just
beasts.
They live like animals. They have never
made a commitment to the Lord.
It's the worst thing to see. If you know
people who don't know the Lord, they're
just living like an animal, eating,
sleeping, eating, sleeping, eating,
sleeping.
you're here and you haven't given your
life to the Lord, stop just eating and
sleeping. Get to know the Lord. Come to
know him. Become more than just a beast.
Become a spiritual person. The
invitation is always yours. Thank you
for listening. If you need to come, come
while we stand, while we sing.
