Have you ever read a story and wondered,
"How did they do that?" Not in a good
way, but how could they possibly do that
horrible
thing? You know, hindsight's 2020. And
sometimes when we read through these
these different stories in the
Bible, we don't really see it from their
perspective. And so today, what I'd like
to do is add some perspective. I'd like
to pull this story apart into a couple
different narratives. I will do my best
to keep it in chronological order, but I
will be jumping through all of the
gospels in order to do that. So, if
you'll bear with me, we're going to
start with the crowds and culture. So,
to give you a little background, this is
the day of the Passover festival where
the city of Jerusalem will swell to
three times its normal population. This
is going to bring old friends and old
family together. Pilgrims and locals
will all join in celebration to
remember, to worship, and of course to
eat. That's the most important thing.
Um, due to the high numbers, many will
be camping outside of the city, some
even to the west side of the city.
There's this nice area to the west, if
you look at the old topology maps, just
outside of the palace of Herod. This is
the current ptorium, and this is where
Pilate performs his freedom ritual every
year. So the crowds would be gathered
there even before the sun rises in the
early morning under the shade of the
walls hoping that they'll get to see one
of their heroes go free that
day. But history makes them wary. You
see, old Herod is dead and in the ground
8 miles south. But they don't feel a
victory over that because this day also
marks the anniversary of the Passover
blood bath where it's where we believe
several thousand people were massacred
in their very own
temple. Even the young in these crowds
would know the recent troubles caused by
Governor Pilate. First, he smuggled
idols into the city which very nearly
caused a revolt in another blood bath.
He used sacred funds to pay for a new
aqueduct which they did not agree with.
And that caused a massive protest and
almost another revolt in almost another
bloodbath. And more recently, the crowds
have heard of Galilean pilgrims that
were executed while they were making
offerings. That's even mentioned in Luke
13. The crowds largely believe that one
day a messiah will come with armies and
swords and will destroy the Roman filth
that has invaded their homeland.
But until that day comes, they will show
up every year, and they will do this
dance with Pilate in order to see one of
their own be
pardoned. The trumpets from the temple
on the other side of town mark the
beginning of the day. And that's around
the time that they see their religious
rulers, their chief priests, elders, and
even their temple police leaving the
city and coming across the wall towards
the entrance for
Pilate. This was not normal. The crowds
would have tried to move closer to hear
and to see. They see an exchange with a
prisoner with the Roman guards. And it
looks like the governor is speaking to
our religious leaders. Eventually,
Pilate himself would address the crowds.
And that's where we'll pick up in Luke
23:4. Pilate says, "I find no basis for
an accusation against this man." And of
course, at this point, a murmur spreads,
reminding the crowd that they are here
for. They're here to free one of their
own sons. A name is quickly spread
throughout the crowd. Barabbus. We want
Barabbus. For them, Barabbus is a
symbol. He's the kind of Messiah that
they are looking for. The kind of man
that will do anything to save them from
this Roman
occupation. March sorry, Mark 15:6 says,
"Now at the festival, and this is
talking about Pilate, he used to release
a prisoner for them, anyone for whom
they asked. Now a man called Barabus was
in prison with the insurrectionists who
had committed murder during the
insurrection. So the crowd came and
began to ask Pilate to do for them
according to his custom. Then he
answered them, "Do you want me to
release for you the king of the Jews?"
And for the crowds, this is the first
time they're hearing that phrase, the
king of the Jews today. And it's
chilling because that phrase echoes of
the massacres of times past, of the
times of Herod. Luke 23:18 continues,
"Then they all shouted out together,
"Away with this fellow,
away! Release Barabus for us." The
crowds then stay uniformed in their
demand for Barabbus. From that point
forward, they hear cries and they repeat
them." Mark 15:12, Pilate spoke to them
again, saying, "Then what do you wish me
to do with this man you call the king of
the Jews?" And they shouted back,
"Crucify him."
Some time passes as Pilate goes in and
out speaking to their rulers again and
again. John
19:15 these crowds they cry out away
with him away with him. Crucify him. The
crowds can see Pilate washing his hands
now. And by this point they have formed
a consensus unified in their desire for
Barabus.
Matthew 27:2 Then the people who
answered the the people as a whole
answered, "His blood be on us and on our
children." For the crowds, the deed is
done. They have rescued their hero,
their son Barabbus. They will disperse
and go on to celebrate the Passover now.
And their minds by freeing Barabus, they
have secured their culture.
But let's zoom in because not that's not
the whole story. Let's look at the
rulers and
rank. The chief priests, the elders,
some Pharisees, their scribes, and even
the temple police. These Jews would have
all been collectively known as their
religious rulers. And I'm calling the
rulers because it's just a lot shorter.
Uh so to give you a little background on
them, their story actually started eight
days back when the they first got word
of the raising of Lazarus.
That very night they heard about it.
They called an emergency meeting and
they shared their fears. In John 11:48,
we get a peak into this meeting. They
said, "If we let him go on like this,
talking about Jesus, everyone will
believe in him, and the Romans will come
and destroy both our holy place and our
nation."
Caiaphas, their high priest, would then
say in verse 50, "It is better for you
to have one man die for the people than
to have the whole nation
destroyed." At first glance, this seems
like quite a rational argument. These
rulers would almost immediately expand
their scope, however, to include more
than one man because they almost
immediately plan to also kill Lazarus.
However, all their plans would have
utterly failed had Jesus not chosen to
come to the temple on the 8th of Nissan.
Do you remember the triumphant entry?
The time when they all called out,
hosana and Jesus entered the temple.
Well, these rulers would remember that
time as well. That is the moment that he
reached their attention the most and
they reacquired him as a target. That's
at the same moment, by the way, that the
lambs and goats were being carried into
the temple for their initial inspection
in being chosen to be sacrificed. At
that same moment, these rulers chose
Jesus as a
sacrifice. But they had to watch and
wait as Jesus drew more and more
attention, unable to catch him alone.
Jesus would continue to teach there. And
what's worse, he upset the temple
economy by rooting out their thievery
that he saw there.
That extortion had been helping these
rulers build their economic status. So
now they saw Jesus as a triple threat.
He was a threat not only to their
teaching but also to their authority and
now to their finances. In short, Jesus
had become a threat to all the things
that made up their rank among the
people. So they moved quickly. Then they
had an extremely tight deadline.
They needed to get Jesus processed
through the Sanhedrin and in front of
Pilate by the Passover or their moment
of opportunity would be lost
forever. They likely broke some rules to
do this. The only two credible witnesses
that they were able to gather had
competing and incorrect testimonies.
They still rushed this case through to
the last moment. And that's where the
story picks back up. John
18:28. They then took Jesus from
Caiaphas to Pilate's headquarters. It
was early in the morning. They
themselves did not enter the
headquarters so as to avoid ritual
defilement and to be able to eat the
Passover. So the Roman ptorium would
have been filled with symbols of Rome
and idols to other gods. So these rulers
believed that if they stepped into their
ptorium that it would defile them, make
them unclean. And yet they had no qualms
about pushing Jesus into there. Luke
23:2 says, "They begun to accuse him,
saying, 'We found this man inciting our
nation, a lie, forbidding us to pay
taxes to Caesar, another lie, and saying
that he himself is the Messiah, a king,
a
misquote." Notice the rulers did not
seem to have any qualms about lying to
Rome, to Caesar, because to them, he was
filth. So Pilate begun to question their
accusations. And the rulers didn't like
this. They weren't expecting this. They
got a little offended. In John 18:30,
they answered, "If this man were not a
criminal, we would not have handed him
over to
you." Then in verse 31, they explain,
"We are not permitted to put anyone to
death." See, the rulers are patting
themselves on the back here for bringing
someone to Rome, handing him over. They
consider him an enemy of the state, and
they're surprised that Rome isn't
immediately jumping on board.
Pilate doesn't pick up the narrative
that they're dropping. So, the
accusations continue to build up steam.
Mark 15:3. Then the chief priests
accused him of many things. But they
were insistent and said, and this is in
Luke 23:5, "He stirs up the people by
teaching through all Judea from Galilee
where he began even to this
place." Pilate hears that and then
leaves for a while. They don't really
know why yet, but this gives them time
they need to do some crowd control
because Pilate still isn't picking up
their narrative. Ma Matthew 27:20. Now
the chief priests and the elders
persuaded the crowds to ask for Barabbus
and to have Jesus
killed. When Pilate comes back, he
offers to release Jesus, but the crowd
at this point is primed to refuse. John
18:40. They shouted in reply, "Not this
man, but Barabbus." See, some of the
crowds still don't even know who this
man is. I think that's
interesting. They're just following the
words of their
rulers. Sometime later, the Romans
brought Jesus back out, flogged and
insulted. And again, the rulers were
ready for this moment. They had
squaltched their sympathy. In John 19:6,
when the chief priests and the police
saw him, they shouted, "Crucify him!
crucify him. These chief priests and
their temple police intentionally
instigate the crowd towards violence.
They're using the crowd to add pressure
to Pilate. But Pilate is still
reluctant. He's not on board with the
idea that Jesus is a threat to Caesar as
the rulers had theorized. Remember, the
rulers had rationalized that this was
what was going to prevent Rome from
destroying them. Of course, Caesar is
going to want this man
dead. But instead of stopping, the
rulers doubled down when Pilate doesn't
pick that up. Now, they use Jewish law.
Look at John 19:7. The Jews answered
him, "We have a law, and according to
that law, he ought to die because he has
claimed to be the son of God." Pilate
hears this, goes back inside for a
while, but when he returns, he continues
to suggest that they ask for Jesus's
release. Since Jewish law didn't sway
him, they then go on the Roman
offensive. In John 19:12, the Jews cried
out, "If you release this man, you are
no friend of
Caesar." Everyone who claims to be a
king sets himself against Caesar. And
again, Pilate disappears for a while
after this point is made.
While he's gone, the rulers realize that
invoking Caesar was the last tool that
they needed to to sway Pilate to see
things that their their way. So when he
returns with Jesus one last time,
they're ready with their final response.
In John 19:15, Pilate asked them, "Shall
I crucify your king?" The chief priests
answered, "We have no king but
Caesar." And for them, the deed is done.
They can soon rejoin their high priest
Caiaphas at the temple and pretend that
they have averted another temple
destruction. In their minds, by
eliminating this threat, the rulers have
secured their
rank. But wait, there's more to the
story, isn't there? Let's zoom in one
more step. Let's look at Pilate and
profession. I'll skip the background for
him. Let's start in John 18 29. So
Pilate went on to went out to them and
said, "What accusation do you bring
against this man?" Verse 31, Pilate said
to them, "Take him yourselves and judge
him according to your law." Continuing
in verse 33, then Pilate entered the
headquarters again, some of Jesus, and
asked him, "Are you the king of the
Jews?" Jesus answered, "Do you ask this
on your own, or did others tell you
about me?" Pilate replied, "I'm not a
Jew, am I? Your own nation and the chief
priests have handed you over to me. What
have you done?" Pilate still thinks that
Jesus may still have some sort of
earthly kingdom, some sort of group
that's fighting for him. In verse 36,
Jesus answered, "My kingdom does not
belong to this world. If my kingdom hand
sorry if my kingdom belonged to this
world, my followers would be fighting to
keep me from being handed over to the
Jews. But as it is, my kingdom is not
from
here. Jesus is saying, Pilate, my
kingdom is out of your jurisdiction.
You see, I have no armies, no defense
attorneys, no counterarguments because
the kingdom of God is not of this world
and does not need
defending. Verse 37, Pilate then asked,
"So you are a king?" You see, he's
starting to get the sense that this man
is a little more than he appears. Jesus
answered, "You say that I am a king. For
this I was born, and for this I came
into the world to testify to the truth.
Everyone who belongs to the truth
listens to my
voice. And then Pilate asked him, "What
is
truth?" This likely confuses Pilate. You
see, the truth mentioned by Jesus is a
kind of truth with possession. It's not
the kind of truth you can find and then
wield like a weapon as the Pharisees do.
It's not the kind of truth that you can
discover and then use as a fulcrum to
control the masses as the Romans do.
Jesus speaks of a different kind of
truth.
This truth when you discover it, it
becomes your homeland. You belong to it.
After Pilate responded, he immediately
went out to the Jews again and told
them, "I find no case against him." But
the rulers are insistent. Remember, they
expand their story now, mentioning
Galilee. And in this, Pilate sees an
opportunity to salvage the situation.
Finally, a way to pass on responsibility
and maybe boost his career at the same
time. Luke
23:6 Then Pilate heard this, he asked
whether this man was a Galilean, and he
learned that he was under Herod's
jurisdiction. He sent him off to Herod,
who was himself in Jerusalem at that
time. But this plan only partially
works. This does heal a rift between
Pilate and Herod, we find out. But Herod
Antabas passes the responsibility back
to Pilate. Luke 23:13 continues, "Pilate
then called together the chief priests,
the leaders, and the people, and said to
them, you brought me this man as one who
is inciting the people, and here I have
examined him in your presence, and have
not found guilty found this man guilty
of any of your charges against him.
Neither has Herod, for he sent him back
to us. Indeed, he has done nothing to
deserve death. I will therefore have him
flogged and release him. At this point,
the crowd starts asking that he give out
the pardon that he's usually known to
do. And Pilate leaps on that
opportunity. Mark 15:9-10 says, "Then he
answered them, do you want me to release
to you the king of the Jews?" For he
realized it was out of jealousy that the
chief priests had handed him over. So
from here on out in his story, he
continues to use the phrase the king of
the Jews to dig at the insecurities and
the jealousy that he sees in the rulers.
Matthew 27:21, the governor again said
to them, "Which of the two do you want
me to release to you?" And they said, "A
Barabus." Luke 23:20, Pilate wanting to
release Jesus, addressed them again, but
they kept shouting, "Crucify him!
Crucify him!"
Luke 23:22. A third time he said to
them, "Why? What evil has he done? I
have found him I found in him no ground
for the sentence of death. I will
therefore have him flogged and then
release him." A second time he offers
this compromise. He's hoping that if
they see him flogged, they'll back off.
John 19:1 Then Pilate took Jesus, had
him flogged, and the soldiers wo a crown
of thorns and put it on his head. and
they dressed him in a purple robe. They
kept coming up to him, saying, "Hail,
King of the Jews." and striking him on
the face. Pilate went out again and said
to them, "Look, I am bringing him out to
you to let you know that I find no case
against him." So Jesus came out wearing
the crown of thorns and the purple robe.
Pilate said to them, "Behold the man."
Notice Jesus is likely no longer bound.
Pilate at this moment is ready to
release him and he's hoping that they'll
take that. But as we know, the rulers
began their chant immediately. Pilate
starts to get angry. Let's take a look
at John 19:6. Pilate then said to them,
"Take him yourselves and crucify him. I
find no case against him and he knows
they
won't." Then the rulers explained that
Jesus should die because he has claimed
to be the son of God. John 19:8. Now
when Pilate heard this, he was more
afraid than ever. So let me ask you
church, why was Pilate afraid? Why was
he more afraid now when he heard that
this man is called G called God? Is he
starting to believe that Jesus is more
than a man? Or does he realize that many
would believe that after talking to him?
He also realizes that he has just had
that very man flogged and publicly
humiliated. Resuming in John 19:9, he
entered his headquarters again and asked
Jesus, "Where are you from?" But Jesus
gave him no answer. Pilate therefore
said to him, "Do you refuse to speak to
me? Do you not know that I have the
power to release you and the power to
crucify you?" Jesus answered him, "You
would have no power over me unless it
has had been given to you from above.
Therefore, the one who handed me over to
you is guilty of the greater
sin. From then on, Pilate tried to
release him. This is where the rulers
switch tactics. They start shouting that
Pilate is against
Caesar. He's been on thin ice as a
governor up to this point. So, this
really gets to him. He starts to weaken.
In verse 13, when Pilate hears these
words, he brought Jesus outside and sat
on the judge's bench at the place called
the stone pavement, or in Hebrew,
Gabbatha. John 19:14. Now it was the day
of preparation for the Passover, and it
was about noon. He said to the Jews,
"Here is your king." Again, Pilate makes
one last dig at the jealousy of the
rulers, but it does nothing. And finally
in Luke
23:23, the continuous and urgent demands
of the people finally prevail. Matthew
27:4. So when Pilate saw that he could
do nothing, but rather a riot was
beginning, he took some water and he
washed his hands before the crowd,
saying, "I am innocent of this man's
blood. See to it yourselves."
Pilate feels the pressure to maintain
the peace, but he pushes the blame
immediately to the rulers and throws in
that one last dig. He knows that the
Jews want clean hands right now, and
he's verbally placing the blood on their
hands, portraying them as unclean, at
least in principle. Luke 23:4. So Pilate
gave his verdict that their demand
should be granted. He released the man
they asked for, the one they had been
put that had been put in prison for
insurrection and murder. And he handed
Jesus over as they wished. And for him,
the deed was done. He would go on about
his day. In his mind, by ending that one
life, he secured his
profession. But wait, can we zoom in a
little
further? Let's talk about the lamb and
the light.
Have you ever wondered what Jesus was
thinking during this whole trial? You
may think that we don't have enough
scriptures to really know that he says
almost nothing. But if you look back at
his teachings, it's actually pretty
clear. He has left breadcrumbs for us to
find. So if you have questions like I
do, you might be able to find the
answers. And so I'm going to go through
six quick little questions. One, is the
lamb afraid of the people who want to
kill him?
Matthew 10:28 he said do not fear those
who would kill the body but cannot kill
the soul. So no the lamb did not fear
these
men. Does the lamb hate these people for
what they are doing? Matthew 5:44 he
said love your enemies and pray for
those who persecute you. And we know he
felt this way because it's confirmed in
Luke 23:34 when he actually does that
out loud.
Third question, is the lamb offended
when he's being
persecuted? Matthew 5:10, he said,
'Blessed are those who are persecuted
for righteousness's sake, for theirs is
the kingdom of heaven. Did you think he
wouldn't practice what he
preached? Do you think he wouldn't count
this blessing in the
end? Why is the lamb silent through most
of this questioning?
Matthew 7:6, he gives an answer to that.
Do not give what is holy to dogs, and do
not throw your pearls before swine, or
they will trample them underfoot and
turn and maul you. See, they weren't
ready for the truth that he had to
offer. And they weren't truthfully
seeking that truth. Sometimes people
just ask questions because they want to
dig at you. They want to get something
from you that they can nibble on. So, he
answers some questions and he is silent
for the others because he loves them.
Remember, he loves them even through all
of this. Fifth question, is the lamb
made unclean by these things that are
done to him? Remember, Jesus saw the
chief priest carefully avoiding stepping
into the pritorium for fear of
contamination by the Roman images that
were in there. But his comments in Mark
7:15 are clear about this. He said,
"There's nothing outside a person that
by going into him can defile him. But
the things that come out of a person are
what defile
him. See, the lamb is a witness when the
crowds defile themselves by calling out,
"His blood be on us and on our
children." The lamb is a witness when
the rulers defile themselves by calling
out, "We have no king but Caesar." And
the lamb is a witness when Pilate
defiles himself with the lie, "I am
innocent of this man's blood." just
before calling for the
crucifixion. So, no, Jesus was not the
one being made unclean here. And my last
question, why didn't the lamb fight
back? Surely, he could have. He was
right there in front of the government.
He could have changed everything in that
moment. Matthew 5:38, Jesus gives us an
answer. But if anyone strikes you on the
right cheek, turn the other also.
See, he taught us how to face evil, how
to not return violence with violence,
how to not return insult with insult. We
know now that that backhanded slap
across the right side of the face was
intended to be a
dehumanizing gesture at that time. It
wasn't just physically painful, it was
emotionally painful. So Jesus gave a
subversive solution with that
illustration. Instead of escalating like
an animal as expected, he taught to
force the abuser to confront you as a
human. So in order for them to do more
violence, verbal or otherwise, they must
confront themselves in the face of his
silence and his lack of rising to the
bait. They now need to confront
themselves as the uncontrolled animal in
this
scenario. So when he's struck, he does
not lash out. When he's insulted, he
does not return with insult. And by
turning the cheek, Jesus turns this
trial around onto his accusers and
creates a learning opportunity for them
all because remember, he loves
them. Church, it is not his kingdom that
was on trial that day. It's theirs. It's
ours. It's the kingdom of men. For the
crowds, it was their kingdom of culture
on trial. As a result of their
decisions, their cultural identity will
be systematically scattered by the
Romans. For the rulers, it was their
kingdom of rank on trial. For their
corruption will lead to their future
revolts and the Rome will and Rome will
take their possessions, their wealth,
their temple, all of it. For Pilate, it
was his kingdom of profession on trial.
His brutality here would go on to cause
more brutality and he would be removed
from office in a few short years and he
will face a bitter end. But unlike these
other parties in this story, the lamb is
not led by fear. The lamb has a kingdom
that needs no defense here. The lamb
brings light that exposes truth for us.
So church, what kingdom do you
serve? Do you fear the loss of your
culture? Is that what you defend like
the crowds? Do you fear the loss of your
rank like the rulers? Is that what you
defend? Do you fear the loss of your
profession like Pilate? Is that what you
defend? Or do you fear nothing because
you serve the kingdom of God like the
lamb? Is there something weighing
heavily on you today, keeping you from
living more fully in his kingdom?
Do you think the lamb is just waiting
for you to surrender one last worldly
kingdom? If we can assist you in coming
to Christ or if you need any prayers or
support, anything you need, we invite
you to come now as we stand and sing.
