Seems when Jesus was born,
almost no one knew about it.
I find that fascinating.
Greatest person
to ever be born.
Kind of reminds me December 1903. Uh
after quite a few attempts,
Orville and Wilbur Wright successfully
got their flying machine off the ground.
And when you hear it, it sounds like
that was it. That's what this whole
thing was about. They got it off the
ground for a hole of 120 ft.
That's less than this room.
Wasn't very much. Uh you would almost
think that's like a kite could get off
the ground 120 ft, but it was still the
greatest achievement at that point in
human history virtually. And so they uh
telegraphed back in the day. Some of you
don't know what that is. That's like
texting but a little different.
Telegraph their sister Katherine to tell
the local newspaper what had happened.
And so they wrote, "We have actually
flown 120 ft and we will be home for
Christmas." And if you know anything
about telegraphs, every letter cost you
something. So that was quite a lot. It
cost him a chunk of money to send that.
So that's the reason the short thing
will we flown 120 ft. We'll be home for
Christmas. And so Katherine hurried down
to the local newspaper, gave it to the
editor, and he said in he put in there
how nice the boys will be home for
Christmas. Totally missed the greatest
story in history. Nothing about the
flight at all was in the news item.
But here's the question that hit my mind
as I'm thinking about that sort of
thing. What was the biggest news item of
the day that Jesus was born? You ever
think about that? I mean, obviously they
didn't have World News Tonight. They
didn't have anything like that and have
60 Minutes, but if there had been a news
company that did cover such things, what
would it have been? And so I did some
digging and I think I came close. Here
it is. King Morabaldos,
who is also known as the great crow.
Y'all know this story, right?
He became ruler of Macronami Mani
Macronami and he was fighting against
the Roman Empire expansion in Bohemia.
Y'all know this story. Anyway, so that
that's where Bohemian Rapsidity comes
from. And so, uh, Bohemian Rapsidity is
about a young man who accidentally kills
someone like Faustst. He did it because
he sold his soul to the devil, which is
probably something Queen did to be able
to get that as a hit.
No, none of that made any sense. I was
just messing with John. But but it is
true about the the crow guy. That's that
really was going on. Uh John 1:es 10 and
11 says, "He was in the world, and the
world was made through him, and the
world did not know him." He made the
world and the world did not know him. He
came to his own and his own did not
receive him.
Certainly
the night he was born was a silent night
of world news, wasn't it? Because the
greatest news thing that had ever been
in the history didn't get covered at
all. Nothing in a newspaper,
just some shepherds.
When Pope Julius I authorized December
the 25th as the birth of Jesus in 353.
I know some of y'all think that he was
just guessing at it, but he's probably
about right on that. And January the 6th
was also important. Not for the reason
that you think because the political
stuff, but January the 6th was the day
that they believe the Magi visited uh
the baby Jesus.
They're close to being right. Uh if
you've never studied that, don't mock
it. I've done a little digging into
that. They got some evidence for that
and uh we can talk about that if you
want to ask me later. When Professor
Charles What what's interesting to me is
I don't think  they had any idea
when they said December 25th would be
the day that we'll remember it that it
would ever become what it is today.
I don't think they had any idea of that.
Uh, and when Professor Charles Folen lit
candles on the first uh American
Christmas tree in 1832, those were real
candles.
Uh, I can't imagine that he had in mind
how many lights are out there right now.
Can you imagine if we had to count all
the Christmas lights that are outside
right now? I guarantee you Tico's happy
about it. A Silent Night,
originally Austrian or German,
is one of the most well-known
traditional Christmas carols sung around
the world.
The song was originally a poem by Joseph
France Moore.
It was just a poem, but he was a
preacher and uh he they had things for
Christmas
uh night, midnight service, Christmas
Eve.
And so he asked his friend Fron uh also
from another Fron by the way uh Xavier
Gruber in 1818 to quickly compose some
kind of tune which he did on a guitar.
By the way, Joseph Friends Moore the
preacher desperately needed this for his
midnight
uh service for Christmas. And Gruber,
who was a school teacher, but he was
also their choir director, he knocked
something out. what he knocked out isn't
really what you hear in the song that
you hear now. If you get that tuned in
your head, Silent Night, Holy Night,
 it was actually slower. It was
a little different rhythm. Uh, slightly
different tune. Not much different, but
the translation that we sing into
English was done by a guy named John
Freeman Young in 1859.
There are actually six verses in Silent
Night in the Austrian and German
version, but we sing three. Three. I
want to focus on those three tonight
because I think they point something
out. But I I want to talk just a moment
about that whole concept that it was a
holy night obviously that Jesus was
born, but it might not have been totally
a silent night. Have you ever wondered
why Luke 2 and verse 7 says, "And she
brought forth her firstborn son and
wrapped him in swaddling cloths and laid
him in a manger because there was no
room for them in the end." Have you ever
wondered about that? Why that was the
case? Was it just because there were so
many people coming to town and they just
couldn't find a hotel room? There's
nobody that would have them. You got to
remember that they were related to
people in that town. So what was going
on there? Was it just that there was no
room that that's it? It might have been
a little different than we imagined. Uh
I I even imagine Lot doing something
similar to this. But what they had uh
their bed and breakfast, if you will,
were not anything like we do. They
tended to have a house attached to a
walledin area
that did not have rooms. It'd be like a
porch area that would go around like a
quad. Okay, so get you in your head like
a small house attached to a small quad
that would have a roof area that go
around the perimeter of it and people
would tuck themselves with their animals
underneath that at different places. So
you say, "Well, there just wasn't enough
room."
Well, yeah, but maybe there wasn't
enough room for a woman about to have a
baby. Have you ever been in a room next
to a woman about to have a baby?
Have you been in the room with a woman
about to have a baby? I don't know if
you've been there, but I suspect a good
portion of you have. And from time to
time, there's a little bit of noise in
the room.
And it might be hard for everybody else
in the quad out there to sleep. less.
How many people want to be looking over
there? Oh, look, honey. Oh, or who wants
to be looked at, right? You want to be
having a baby. So, it is interesting the
way it says it because if you really
follow the way it says it, you if you
don't think about it because you want to
make that point, well, there just wasn't
enough room for Jesus. That might not be
what's going on here at all. Um, it is
interesting the way it says they brought
forth their firstborn son and laid him
in his swaddling clothes and laid him in
a manger because there was no room for
them then. Did they have it? Did they
have it in the was that where it was
born or did that where they laid it?
That's a difficult thing to answer to.
But I will tell you this, it would be
quite disturbing if you're laying over
here and about 10 foot away there's a
woman having a baby.
And I do assure you that Genesis 3:16
applied to Mary just as well as it did
to anybody else, which means there was
pain.
It was pain having a baby. But I want to
take that because it might not have been
that silent of a night. You know what
I'm saying? It might not have been quite
absolutely still, no noise, Jesus is
born and stepped up. Probably was not.
So I want to give you three thoughts.
Just three simple thoughts and I'll be
about three. Silent night, holy night,
all is calm, all is bright.
That tells you something about the text.
Have you noticed it in the text? It was
an unclouded night.
Matthew 2 and verse 10 says, "When they
saw the star, they rejoiced with
exceeding great joy." We know it's that
because then we we just read the passage
where they could see the angels in the
heavens. So, if there were clouds, I'm
not saying there were no clouds. I'm
just saying it wasn't a real cloudy
night like kind of we got right now. You
could see the stars. You could see them.
It was a clear night. And then it goes
on to say, "Round virgin, mother and
child, holy infant so tender and mild,
sleep in heavenly peace. Sleep in
heavenly peace." So I think it was a
beautiful starllet night. And I think
that's the point of the song.
All is calm,
all is bright. Is anything more
beautiful than a starlet night?
I don't think there is. They go out. I
do want to remind you at this point in
this lesson, the December the 24th.
Don't come here.
We want you to have a beautiful night
where the stars are lit at your house.
That's December the 24th. So, we aren't
having a service here on the 24th. Enjoy
the silent night as a holy night for
you. Second little truth I want you look
at as it goes on. The song says, I've
got a point to make at the end, but I'm
trying to be simple here. Silent night,
holy night. Shepherds quake at the side.
What are they quaking at? That's very
clear. Now, there were in the same
country shepherds living out in the
field, keeping watch over their flock by
night. Now, there are people who say,
"Well, it this couldn't be December
because there were shepherds keeping
watch over their flock by night." That's
absolutely wrong.
Biblically, well, I I can show you
scripture. Uh there was a guy named
Jacob. You ever heard of a guy named
Jacob?
It says that he was covered in frost
watching Laban's sheep. They had to be
in the field often. You can't put them
in your house. And who builds a barn big
enough for all the sheep? But they did
have a thing called a migdall. Now a
migdall is a tower. But even if you have
a tower where you watch keep watch over
your flock by night and you might have
some and sleep in there, some have to be
out in the field. They can't all be in
the tower. What they did keep in the
tower were the baby sheep. And they
wrapped them in swaddly cloths. And the
ones in Bethlehem just happen to be the
sheep that they used for the sacrifices.
That's where the priests raised them.
at Mdall in Bethlehem. Ain't that
interesting because that's the when
where Jesus was supposed to be. Well, we
get I don't want to go too far into
that, but here, let me finish reading
this. And behold, an angel of the Lord
stood before them and the glory of the L
Lord shone round around them, and they
were greatly afraid, angelic hosts. and
then sang
glorious streams from heaven a far
heaven's host sing allelujah Christ the
savior is born Christ the savior is born
shepherds quake
I think great shepherds quake I am
thrilled that we've got more elders
right now
great shepherds quake
if you aren't nervous about what you do
if you are nervous about what God's
doing. If you never get nervous, you
never get shaky in front of God. I don't
know if you're praying.
They're not just praying that you'll
have a lovely day.
They're keeping watch for your soul.
Just like these shepherds are keeping
watch for the sheep, they're keeping
watch for your soul.
I think there's a double on Tandra here
watching for the sheep. Angels around,
but it's a bit nerve-wracking.
Angelic hosts.
Silent night, holy night, shepherds
quake at the site. I think every good
shepherd would. Number three,
Silent Night, Holy Night, Son of God
loves pure light.
If you really want to know what love's
pure light is, this is it.
John 1:4 and5, in him was life. Talking
about Jesus, the word of God. In him was
life. What does that mean?
He has
life. He is life. Only God has
immortality. You say, "Well, the angels,
no, they don't have immortality the way
God does."
Nothing has im You will never have
immortality the way God does.
You didn't exist once. Angels didn't
exist once. God has immortality.
He possesses it.
He has it. He is life. He doesn't just
represent life. He is the thing that
gave to you and you're alive right now
cuz he extended life to you. But let me
finish. In him was life and the life was
the light of men and the light shines in
the darkness and the darkness did not
comprehend it. Don't be surprised if the
world doesn't catch on to what you're
saying. And don't be surprised if the
world doesn't perceive what you do as
love. But I will tell you, it's a high
love. I've told you about this. Isaiah
55:54-53.
Please go home sometime and read it in
that order. Isaiah 55 54 and then 53.
And you will see the highness of God's
love. His love's greater than you've
imagined. Celebrate that light. And that
light is truth. But it's more than that.
It's a light of love. radiant beings
from thy holy face with the dawn of
redeeming grace.
Jesus Lord at thy birth. Jesus Lord at
thy birth. It is that grace that love
that has been extended to us. The love
that gave us life. The love that gave us
light. The love that gave us love that
saves our soul.
This is a great song. If you just let me
walk you through the three things real
quickly. Look at what he says. Silent
night, holy night, all is calm. All is
bright. What a wonderful night. Silent
night. Holy night. Shepherds quake at
the site. They are the ones there and
they see it. Silent night. And by the
way, that's would be December the 25th,
but the wise men only show up on the 6th
if the Catholics are correct. And I
think they're probably about right.
Silent night, holy night. Son of God
loves pure light.
Yeah. Pure light of love. In Luke 2:es
10-14, it says this. Then the angel said
to them, "Do not be afraid. For behold,
I bring you good tidings of great joy,
which will be to all people. It's not
just to the Jews. This is you and me.
For there is born to you this day in the
city of David a savior who is Christ the
Lord." Listen to me. He was savior at
his birth. He was Lord at his birth. So
this idea that oh well we celebrate the
death of Christ
and you would well be served to
celebrate the birth of Christ because he
was savior and lord and Christ at his
birth wasn't something that was going to
be planned later. Oh let's well he's
he's taught a little bit now we'll make
him savior. No he was savior at birth
and then who is Christ the Lord in verse
14. and glory to God in the highest and
on earth peace, goodwill toward men. So
God has sent our redeemer and he has set
us free. Had he already done it? Well,
there's sense in which no and there's
sense which yeah, he had planned this
from the dawn of creation. This was
going to happen. It's a maybe. And so
celebrate it. AJ Gordon
uh lived from uh 1869 to 1895
and he was a preacher of the Claridan
Church in Boston, Massachusetts.
One day he met a young boy in front of
his church building who was carrying an
old rusty cage.
And in that rusty cage was a bunch of or
several anyway birds kind of fluttering
around. Wasn't a very big cage, but
they're just fluttering all over the
place. And so the preacher said to the
young man, "Uh, son, where'd you get
these birds?"
And he said, "Well, I trapped them in
the field.
And what are you going to do with them?"
Well, I was going to play with them, and
then I guess I was just going to feed
them to my old cat at home. And uh
Gordon said, "Well, can I buy them from
you?"
And he said, "Well, mister, you don't
want them.
They're just old wild birds. They can't
even sing. Well, what would you want
this for?" He said, "Well, I'll give you
$2." And you got to understand, you you
understood the dates I was mentioning
1800s.
He offered them $2 for the cage and the
birds. That was serious money.
That's that's serious money then. Be
more like 100 bucks
for just a cage, rusty cage full of
bunch of old Phil birds.
And so he offered him $2 for the cage
and the birds. And the young man said,
"Okay, it's a deal, but you're making a
really bad bargain here, sir." Anyway,
gave him the money. The boy went away
whistling cuz he had money in his pocket
that he wasn't expecting.
And uh as he walked back to the church
building, he walked behind the church
building. When he got to the church
building, he opened the cage up and he
let them all go free.
Closed it up.
And then the next Sunday he took the old
rusty cage
into the pull pit with him and he set it
up on the pull pit and he used it in as
an illustration in a sermon which he
wanted to preach about how Christ came
to seek and to save the lost
and how he paid the ransom for our souls
and he redeemed us.
He said this in his sermon, "That boy
told me these birds were not songsters.
They couldn't even sing good.
But when I released them
and they went their way toward heaven,
it seemed to me that they were singing
redeemed,
redeemed, redeemed."
As I read that story, I couldn't help
but think of a lady called Fanny Crosby.
Uh she died in 1915.
In 1882,
she was 6 weeks old and something the
doctors did made her go blind and she
was blind the rest of her life. But
there are over 60 songs in our song
books today. I don't know if they're all
in the one we have, but they're still
popular, well known. She was a great
songwriter.
She wrote that redeemed. How I love to
proclaim it. Redeemed by the blood of
the lamb. Redeemed through his infinite
mercy. But his best line is this one.
His child and forever I am. Redeemed.
Redeemed. Redeemed. Redeemed. Redeemed
by the blood of the lamb. Redeemed.
Redeemed. His child and forever I am. I
think you just need to get a sense of
the joy we should have. That's really
what this lesson's about. I just want
you to get the joy. You hear silent
night, holy night,
all is bright. What a wonderful sight.
True light.
Christmas is a gift and the gift is
Christ.
And he paid the gift with his blood.
Don't be distracted by the lights.
They're wonderful. Don't be like that
newspaper guy. Get the wrong message.
Get the real truth. He didn't become
savior. He was savior at his birth.
He didn't become Lord. He was Lord at
his birth. He didn't become the Christ.
He was the Christ at his birth. I
understand. We want to we think we're
being more spiritually minded when we
make the focus on the cross and we make
the focus on the Lord's supper and we
make the focus on Sunday where we
worship what he's done and thank him for
that. Yes.
But to not appreciate what God made a
record of for us to know about is a
mistake.
It is appropriate for us to do these
things.
It is a God thing, not a Rex Dutton
thing. So if you don't like this, you're
the one with the attitude.
This is in the Bible. It is what we
should appreciate. Enjoy the
decorations. Enjoy the fun. Enjoy the
festivities. All the parties. There's
too many of them though. I will say we
should cut back on the parties. But it's
a wonderful, wonderful time of the year.
Silent night, holy night. I think that
applies right now. This is a silent
night. This is a holy night. I believe
every time we gather in the evening,
it's a special night. So if you have not
given your life to the Lord Jesus,
remember he wants to set you free like
those old birds. And I don't care if you
can sing or you can't sing. I guarantee
you he hears it. Redeemed. Redeemed.
Redeemed. Redeemed. If you need to be
redeemed, won't you come while we stand
and while we sing?
