Living by faith.
I care not today what tomorrow may
bring. No shadow or sunshine or rain,
but
everything and all my worries.
My name
in Jesus
Christ
in his great in his great
I live in my faith. I live my faith and
I'll never
blow and the storm clouds are obesus
above.
Trusting him
in his love.
I live.
I know that he safely will carry me
through no matter what he behind.
Why should I care with him?
Jesus walks close to my side.
My faith
in Jesus
Christ.
I'm living my faith.
&gt;&gt; I'm living my faith.
&gt;&gt; Thank you, Lord.
&gt;&gt; Every time I sing this song, shall we
gather to the river? We remember the old
joke that the preacher preached on, "If
I had all the sin in the world, I'd
throw it in the river. If I had all the
liquor in the world, I throw it in the
river." And then the next psalm is,
"Shall we gather at the river?" No,
that's not what we're singing about
tonight.
I just like the song.
&gt;&gt; Shall we
angels be
with it
forever
flowing by the throne of God?
will gather at the river.
The beautiful, beautiful river
at the river
that flows by the throne of God.
Here we reach the shining river.
every
grace our deliver
and the ro
the
beautiful river
with the saint at the river
by the throne of God.
Soon we'll reach the silver river.
Soon our pilgrimage will cease.
Soon our happy hearts
with the me
of
Yes.
The Beautiful, beautiful river
at the river
that flows by the throne of God.
Would you stand for our scripture
reading?
&gt;&gt; Good evening. Our scripture read our
scripture reading tonight will be from 1
Peter 3:15.
But sanctify Christ as Lord in your
hearts, always being ready to make it
offense to everyone who asks you to give
an account for the hope that is in you,
but with gentleness and respect. You may
be seated.
&gt;&gt; Good evening, church.
Try that again. Good evening, church.
&gt;&gt; All right, that sounds better. If you're
new to us, uh, tonight we're having
question and answer. We're going to do
that, um, Lord willing, every Sunday
night here in November. So, there's
sheets still at the back. If you'd like
to ask a question, maybe tonight we'll
provoke a thought or a question that
you've wanted dealt with either in a
sermon or just a Q&amp;A. And some of them
may be quick. I only have two questions
for tonight. We'll try to deal with that
and uh, we'll close up for tonight. But,
uh, if you have questions, uh, feel free
to ask them. Or if there's a subject
that you feel like you haven't heard
dealt with, that's great. Uh, always
want input. If you ever, by the way,
this doesn't have to be just during this
time. If you ever have a topic that you
feel like needs to be dealt with, you
should feel free to suggest that at any
given moment. Uh, but it's always better
if you write it down and hand it to me
because I have a short memory and it's
getting shorter as the years go on. So,
write it down and give it to me and I'll
do my best to deal with it as you can.
Dealing with two questions tonight.
That's all I have. The first one is
God's name uh Jah or Yah and should we
call him by his name? The second
question is what does it mean to know
God? So, both these questions are
basically about God. So, if you would
let's pray before we begin.
Holy Father, uh we always need your help
whenever we're trying to deal with a
concept that's difficult. Help us to
never try to answer questions or look
into something without asking for your
guidance because it's not in us to
direct our steps. So we pray that you'll
direct our steps in your word tonight
and that we'll honor you always and give
you glory. It's in Jesus name we pray.
Amen.
John Milton who died in 1674. So this
happened quite a while ago. As you know,
he's the guy who wrote uh Paradise Lost.
He said this about God. When we speak of
knowing God, it must be understood with
reverence to man's limited powers of
comprehension.
God as he really is is far beyond man's
imagination, little or let let alone
understanding. God has revealed only so
much of himself as our minds can
conceive and the weaknesses of our
nature can bear. Awtoer who died in 63.
He was a preacher and author and a
magazine editor. He said the heart that
knows God can find God anywhere.
DA Carson uh who died in 75 1975 a
theologian he said the more we get to
know God the more we want to know him
better
and Ji Packard who did a lot of writing
who died in 2020
uh he is a Canadian evangelical
theologian and he wrote what we
what were we made for he asked that
question to know God. What aim should we
have in life? To know God. What is the
eternal life that Jesus gives? To know
God. What is the best thing in life? To
know God. What in humans gives God most
pleasure? Knowledge of himself. There's
a difference between knowing God and
knowing about God. When you truly know
God, you have the energy to serve him,
boldness to share him, and contentment
in him. Once you become aware the main
business that you are here for is to
know God, most of life's problems fall
into place of their own accord. What
matters supremely therefore is not in
the last analysis the fact that I know
God but the larger fact which underlies
it the fact that he knows me. So we want
to look first question is God's name J
ah and should we call him by his name?
Is God's name Jah is the way we'd
probably pronounce it? And the reason
for the question is hallelujah
or hallelujah jah I guess you would say
uh praise yah or is it y ah and
truthfully it is yh now in the
vernacular we use today and yah is
correct and it comes from the
tetrogrammaton
yhw
yhw is the name of god and it is in a
lot of different names in the Old
Testament. Elijah or actually
appropriately pronounced is Elijah.
Uh and its definition is his name is def
defined Yah is God. Hallelu Yah even
though it's with a J or hal halleluah.
Uh it's translated praise Yah or praise
the Lord. And I'll explain that in a
minute. It's a compound combination of
halleluj, which means praise ye and yah,
which is the shortened form of what we
normally think is Yahweh.
Now, it's difficult to arrive at that.
The King James version used J Ah, and
I'll explain why that in just a moment.
It it is something we can't do anything
about. This is a language barrier
problem. Uh but it the reason the
question's asked is because Psalm 68:4
in New King James uh says, "Sing to God.
Sing praises to his name. Exalt him who
rides on the clouds by his name. Yah Y
Ah, and rejoice before him." And then if
you go to the old King James, it will
have J Ah. And then Isaiah 202 and verse
two, excuse me. It says, "God is my
salvation. I will trust and not be
afraid for Yah or some versions have uh
Jehovah, the Lord is my strength and
song and has become my salvation." And
Jehovah is a derivation and really a
total misprononunciation of the word. Uh
Isaiah 26:4, "Trust in the Lord forever,
for in Yah the Lord is everlasting
strength." Now what's interesting there
is the Lord is all caps which is the
tetto grammaton ywh for God's name. And
so for in Yah, which is an abbreviation
of his name, which is just two of the
letters, the Y and the H instead of the
YH, and the Lord is all four letters.
And when they wrote it, they used the
vowel pointing later. There were no
vowels in Hebrew.
And so later when they were writing
Hebrew because they were losing the
pronunciation of the words because it
was all uh Hebrew by consonants they
used vow pointing on the word for yhw
from the word for lord which is adoni.
So they put the
vowels from Adoni into YHWH,
which you cannot do, but they did it
anyway. And they did it specifically for
a reason, and I'll give that to you in a
moment. Isaiah 38:1, I said, "I shall
not see Yah." That's Yh, which is just
the Y and the age. The Lord is in the
land of the living. I shall observe man
no more among the inhabitants of the
world. Now the Hebrew YHWH or YHVH, you
can write it that way as well, is
transliterated is the best way to
explain it. Yhovah
or Yaha.
So Yhovah
or Yave, I actually said it wrong. So
that's with more of a V sound. The root
definition of that word is to become and
it's related to a Hebrew uh word which
basically means to be and it's possibly
the reason for it is uh the should be
translated he causes to become or he was
or he is and he will be which is
suggested in Hebrews 11:6 when it says
without faith faith, it's impossible to
please him. For he who comes to God must
believe that he is and that he is the
reward of those that diligently seek
him. The tettogrammaton, this YHWH or
YHVH,
is this four-letter Hebrew name for God
and it's most frequently used in the
Hebrew text. And the reason it was done
that way is is they didn't want to
pronounce it um when they spoke. So they
put the word Lord in there or so they
have the word Adonai which is Lord. The
other word that they often use and if
you listen to Jews, the Hidic Jews speak
to they'll hear this word Hashim. Hashim
means the name. So they will not even
refer to his name at all.
they will not speak that word at all. Uh
they refuse to do that. The
tetetrogrammaton, this four letter
consonant is the yod, the he, the wah,
and the he. And so together, if you put
that together, the pronunciation comes
out sounding much like breathing. And
that may be the way it was meant to be
pronounced, like a breath. uh
and that may be the way it's supposed to
be said, but the truth is is that nobody
really is sure. The Jewish tradition
stopped pronouncing the name because
they wanted to avoid taking his name in
vain. And so since there were no uh
vowel sounding in the Hebrew text until
later, they did not put the vowel
pointing with the name YHW. And that's
the reason for the Adoni vow pointing.
So they just say the Lord. And you shall
not take the name of the Lord, the YHWH.
So every time you see the all caps,
that's the word that's there, the YHW,
uh your God, you shall not take the name
of the Lord your God in vain. For the
Lord, all caps again will not hold him
guiltless who takes his name in vain. So
if you use his name in an inappropriate
way, you have desecrated his name and so
you have sinned at a high level. Uh all
the ten commandments, violation of any
of the ten commandments can result in
your death under the old testament. So
it was a serious matter. This was not a
common thing. And so uh they could put
you to death for mispronouncing his name
even. Exodus 6 and verse two. And God
spoke to Moses and said to him, "I am
the Lord," which is actually YH wh. So
the names of God are are plethora. I
mean, there's so many names for God in
the Old Testament. Yahweh, uh, which is
translated the Lord Elohim, which means
God Adonai, Lord Elshadai, God Almighty,
Llon, most high God. uh Jehovah gyrie,
which is not the way you pronounce it,
but I'll say it that way because I don't
actually know how to pronounce it
exactly the other way. The Lord will
provide Jehovah Rafa, the Lord that
heals. Jehovah Nissi, the Lord my
banner. Jehovah Shalom, the Lord is
peace. Jehovah tu uh which is the Lord
of our righteousness. Jehovah uh uh
Shabboth, the Lord of hosts. Jehovah,
I'm not sure I can even say this.
Meishim,
the Lord who sanctifies. Jehovah Rahi is
the Lord by shepherd and Jehovah Shama
is the Lord is there and Elam is the
everlasting God. So those are most of
the names that are used for God in the
scriptures. What's interesting is they
had no problem with those. So it appears
that it was the reference to his actual
name that they were concerned about and
not these uh definitions if you will of
what God is concerned about. So as an
example to help you understand the
confusion that I have just left in front
of you, I need to explain it by giving
you another example and then it will
make more sense why it's like that. So
we don't speak Hebrew.
We don't even speak very good English.
But English is is a flexing language and
it's come from elsewhere. And so let me
walk you through. For example, the name
James
does not appear in the text of any
Bible.
There is no book of James.
There is no apostle named James.
There is no one in the Bible named
James.
And yet, I bet you can find the book of
James in your Bible right now. So, this
will maybe explain a little bit. James
is an evolution of the name for Jacob.
And that's not the way you say it. The
Hebrew for Jacob, the original name was
Yakult.
The Greek then it became in Greek when
it was translated to Greek. It was
translated and rendered the best they
could because there's not a parallel
between Hebrew letters and Greek letters
just as there's not a parallel between
Hebrew and Greek and English. So there's
no parallel. So you have to find letters
that are similar and make similar
sounds. So in the Greek it was ecobus
almost a yakobus but it's actually an i
with a breathing soundobus
Latin. So now the Latin Bible became
prominent because of Roman Empire
influence. So the Greek name became
Ecobus or Jacobus. J A C O B U S. But
the Latins didn't pronounce it that way.
The J gets a Y sound in Latin. So it was
Yokobus,
which is very close to the Hebrew word.
In the Latin Vulgate, that's what you
see. And the variant is ecomus,
which is not as close. The French over
time. So now then the French had their
say into what we see just over the name
James. So over time the Latin name
evolved in old French forms to jamas or
jamus.
The problem was that that's not the way
they pronounced it. It was jamus or
yamus. And now English got a handle on
it. So in the English all of this was
true about the wise but now we're
speaking English. And the English use
their J which doesn't get a yes sound,
it gets a J just sound. And so that's
where it comes from. The name adopted in
English is James would have been closer
to Ys, but nobody says that. So, but
even Yames is not Yakobus. Are you
following how confusing this is yet? Are
you beginning to understand why you
probably don't want to try to make a big
deal about the name of God? Because you
really don't want to do a sacrilege
against the name of God because that's
actually one of the ten commandments,
right? You really want don't want to
show disrespect for his name. And yet to
arrive at exactly how to pronounce that
name is almost impossible. There are at
least 16 or 17 ways that you can
pronounce this name. But probably the
closest to the proper pronunciation of
his name is the breathing sound.
So it is possible that when you breathe
you say it
and when you breathe your last you'll be
saying it.
Now such is the situation with languages
and pronunciations of names. But the
point is to respect him. So now to
respect him, I would highly recommend
that we go out of our way to be as
respectful as possible. Amen. If his
name is of such that to use it in vain
could you get you in trouble and even
get you put to death under the Old
Testament. Be careful how you use it.
Okay? And you're probably not going to
pronounce it right. You may think you
can, but be careful. But this is the
reason that I got messed up by a rabbi.
I got messed up by a rabbi who talked
about the word go. They will not write
the word go. If you're a Jew, you do not
write go even a little less the name of
God. You just don't do it. You write G
d- D. Because if you write G- D, then
you can destroy that. But if you put the
O there, it becomes sacred. And if it's
sacred, you can't destroy it. And you
should never allow it to be defamed or
made dirty. So all of your Bible, all
your Bibles, all your bills that if you
keep money anymore or any of your coins
have g on it. So for a Jew, that
requires that you treat that money with
special special treatment that you don't
let a coin remain in the dirt. So what
that's done to me is every time I see a
coin in the dirt, I have to pick it up.
And it isn't because I'm money grubbing.
But because I feel that way about it, I
now take that money, put it in my
pocket. If you're up here and you're
ever collecting uh contribution, you'll
see me occasionally throw a few pennies
or a few coins in. And it's caused that
money I picked up out of the dirt that I
feel guilty about that I'm afraid to
leave it. So, I'm totally messed up. All
right. So, there you know how messed up.
Well, you don't know how messed up I am,
but that give you a little insight.
Okay. Second question. Anybody got any
questions about that? Good. Next
question.
What does it mean to know God? Okay,
there's a few things we need to consider
here. So, some passages to help us to
know what it means to know God. One is
it to know God is knowing his son. Uh
you you can't know God without knowing
his son. 1 John 5:20. And we know that
the son of God has come and has given us
an understanding that we may know him
who is true. And we are in him who is
true in his son Jesus Christ. This is
the true God and eternal life. So if
we're going to know him, one of the keys
to knowing God is knowing Jesus. And so
to know God and the meaning of knowing
God is the meaning of knowing Jesus
properly which by the way is not the way
you say his name. The Greek is but
that's not appropriate. His name is
really Yeshua. Jesus never was called
Jesus in his life. So it's knowing his
scriptures. Okay. Knowing his scriptures
are involved in that same concept. Mark
12 and verse 24. Jesus answered and said
to them, "Are you not therefore mistaken
because you do not know the scriptures
nor the power of God?" So to know God
and the meaning of knowing God, you have
to know the son. And it involves knowing
the scriptures. So there's no such thing
as knowing God apart from this or apart
from knowing Jesus. And it also involves
the knowing of his love. Ephesians 3 and
verse 19. To know the love of Christ
which passes knowledge that you may be
filled with all the fullness of God. So
to know something about the love of God
is to know something beyond what you can
know. Now that makes a lot of sense I
think the way I said it. But it actually
doesn't because there's no way for me to
fully understand the depth of the love
of God because I'd have to know God
fully and no one does. But we at least
know a concept about it about how far
he's willing to go. It also involves
understanding his rejection. See, God
and his son and his word is under
constant rejection. 1 John 3:1, "Behold,
what manner of love the father hath
bestowed on us that we should be called
the children of God. Therefore, the
world does not know us because it did
not know him." So, the world still
doesn't know him. And so, literally, you
should expect what we believe to be
rejected on a regular basis. But that's
a part of knowing God because you must
be rejected on a regular basis. If
you're going to claim to know him,
that's a part of knowing God.
And then, you know, part of knowing God
is knowing his truth, which is connected
to everything I've said so far. 1 John
4:6, we are of God. He who knows God
hears us. He who is not of God does not
hear us. By this, we know the spirit of
truth and the spirit of error. If people
won't listen to what we're talking about
right here, there's no way for them to
know God. And we know that they don't
know God because they would reject such
teaching as what we just talked about
that you must know his son. You must
know the scriptures. You must know his
love. You must understand this rejection
aspect. And you must understand his
truth. That's what it means to know God.
But there are practices that help us to
know God. And you can't really know God
without these practices. We have to uh
come to know God by sincere obedience. 1
John 3 and ver 2 and:3 says this. Now by
this we know that we know him if we keep
his commandments. So we know that we
know God when we do what God says which
means you have to know what's in the
scriptures. And it's also by sincere
morality. We have to have a sincere
level of morality. 1 Thessalonians 4:5
says, "Not in passion of lust like the
Gentiles who do not know God." So, we
can't live our life geared and
controlled totally by the passions of
lust. We must live at a different level
than that. Otherwise, we don't end up
knowing God. In Galatians 4:8, but then
indeed when you did not know God, you
serve those which by nature are not
gods. And so there is a sincere loyalty
we we must have toward God. That nothing
comes before God in our life. And we
must all if we're going to know him,
we've got to claim that sincere loyalty.
And then there must be this sincere love
that must exude from our life. 1 John
4:8, he who does not love does not know
God, for God is love. So if there isn't
sincere love coming out of us, we cannot
claim to know God. Those are the
practices we must have. And one last
practice is there must be sincere
prayer. So sincere obedience, morality,
loyalty, love, and prayer. 1 John 5:14.
Now, this is the confidence that we have
in him that if we ask anything according
to his will, he hears us. There's going
to be sincere prayer that we want to
talk to our God. There are a few little
principles that kind of come out in
Jesus sermon on the mount that help us
to understand why it is they did not
understand God in the Old Testament and
didn't really know him and why people
still struggle to know him to this day.
Okay, there's basically three, there's
more than that, but three big ones that
are overarching through the sermon on
the mount. So, you have three chapters,
right? So, in those three chapters, here
are the essence of what he tries to
drive home as what it really means to
know God. In chapter five,
he basically says we must move beyond
external righteousness to true internal
righteousness.
So in other words, doing things but our
heart not wanting to do the right is not
right.
We must not only do what's right, we
must strive to want to do what's right.
And we must not just comply.
Our heart must be in what we do.
Otherwise, we're not really doing it.
The second one is in chapter six. And in
chapter six, we must move beyond these
external devotions
to internal devotion and trust for God.
So, it isn't enough that we show it, we
sing it, we sing without an instrument.
Oh, big deal. Big deal.
If your heart's not in it, you're no
better off than instrumental music
person because your mouth has just
become a an instrument of music. And the
truth is that we make melody where in
our hearts to the Lord. So you're an
instrumentalist if you sing and you
don't mean it.
Same thing. There's no difference. Just
an instrument, another instrument
because it's not about that. It's got to
be on the inside. So that's that's a big
change. So you know God because your
heart's calling out to him and there's a
real devotion, a real trust. And then
Matthew chapter 7, we must move beyond
external lordship to internal lordship.
We must really want to do everything he
asks us to do and not just do whatever
it takes to get by so mom and dad will
get off my back,
right? that just my wife will get off my
back. No, it must be a lordship that
comes from that. So, what does it mean
to know God? Those are some passages,
some practices, and some principles. Let
me end with this and this and then I'll
we'll have our invitation.
Let's say that you were an actor or an
actress
and you were asked to play uh a
legendary character. Let's just say for
the sake of argument a legendary
baseball character like Babe Ruth.
And so what you would do is you would
probably uh get the script and it would
have a little bit about the bio and this
is going to be like a documentary and
you would read the script. But if you
really wanted to do a really good job,
you wouldn't just read the script, would
you? I mean, let's say you don't know
Beirut. Maybe you you you haven't
studied it. Maybe you're not a baseball
fan.
Might be a good idea then to read a
little bit about baseball and go to the
library, read a little bit about
baseball, read a little bit about Babe
Ruth. That would be a smart thing to do
now, wouldn't it? So now all of a sudden
you went from I've got a job and I got
to, you know, act like him to, well, I
know a little bit more about him. And
then what you might want to do is you
might want to watch some old films.
They're movies about Babe Ruth. Watch
some films. some of them not that old.
And so you want to watch that. Maybe you
would want to see a docu drama that's
already been done on him. And you might
want to watch that before you just learn
the script. And you just say the right
words at the right place. And then you
know, you might think, you know, I know
that Babe Bruce's family lives in I
don't know where it's at, Massachusetts,
whatever. and I'm going to drive to
Massachusetts and I'm going to find his
living relatives and I'm going to sit
down with them and I'm going to talk to
them and I'm going to find the essence
from that family about Babru. I want to
know as much about Bab before I try to
act out Babru's life that I possibly
can. And then when you're in that area
wherever he was raised, you might think,
well, you know, I'd like to pick up if
I'm going to act Babe Ruth's part, you
know what? I think I'd like to know his
accent. Y'all may not know this. I
actually have a southern accent. So
different people have different accents
where they live. And so Babe Ruth from
where he was, he had an accent himself.
And so you might think, well, I want to
act that part. I want to learn that
accent. And so they practiced for a
little bit also trying to pick up that
accent. And then you might even like,
well, what were his mannerisms? I want
to see what he did. What does his family
say were his mannerisms? And I learned
all of this. And what's really happening
here is that there's an obvious result.
I'm actually starting to know Babe Ruth.
Something that almost nobody in this
room knows right now.
See, you don't know him. Neither do I.
So, quit claiming you know Babe Ruth.
Well, you probably didn't, did you? Same
thing is true about knowing God. Don't
claim you know him if you don't put any
effort in. Right?
All right. It's got to be some effort.
Little little effort. Little more
effort. Well, I know him better now.
Right. Put a little more effort in. I
know him better now. Right? That's the
way it works. So, if you've here and you
never come to know him, we want to do
all we can. One of the ways that you
know him, as we just pointed out a
minute ago, is you obey him. That's one
of the ways. And he calls you to repent
of your sins, confess the name of
Christ, and be baptized. We'll help you
do that if that's what you need to do.
And by the way, just using the right
word for his name isn't knowing him.
I I don't know exactly, but I suspect
there's a lot of people that we call
their name out and mispronounce it who
are well known.
I suspect that happens, don't you? I bet
there's a lot of actors and actresses
that we have no idea what their real
name is and we claim to know them.
So, just because you use the right
verbiage doesn't mean you know anybody.
dig deeper,
learn better. If you need to come
though, come while we stand and while we
sing.
&gt;&gt; Would you live for Jesus and be always
carry all your love? Let him have his
way with thee.
His power can make you what you want to
be. His blood can cleanse your heart and
make you free. His love can fill your
soul and you will see what's best for
him to have his way with.
Would you have him make you free and
follow by his call? Would you know the
peace that comes by giving all? Would
you have him save you so that you may
never fall? Let him have his way with
thee.
His power can make you what you ought to
be. His blood can cleanse your heart and
make you free. His love can fill your
soul and you will see what's best for
him to have his faith with thee.
Would you in his kingdom find a place of
constant rest? Would you prove him true?
Would you in his service labor always at
your best? Let him have his way with
thee.
His power can make you what you want to
be. His blood can cleanse your heart and
make you free. His love can fill your
soul and you will see
for him to have his way with thee.
Would you be seated?
If you hear this with this evening and
have not had a chance to take the Lord's
supper, if you make your way to the room
on your right, my left, you will be
served there. Sing one more song and
then have our closing prayer.
&gt;&gt; Good way to start our week thanking the
Lord. Thank you, Lord, for loving me and
thank you Lord for blessing me. Thank
you Lord for making me whole and saving
my soul. I want to thank you Lord for
loving me.
Thank you Lord for saving my soul.
Let us all with one accord sing praises
to Christ the Lord. Let us all in song
to praise him all day long. I want to
thank you Lord for
me. Thank you Lord for saving my soul.
Please reveal your will for me so I can
serve you for eternity. Use my life in
every way. Take hold of it today. I want
to thank you Lord for loving me.
Thank you Lord for saving my soul. I
want to thank you Lord for loving me.
Thank you Lord for saving my soul.
