You know, probably no one here would say
names don't matter, but maybe they don't
matter sometimes in our culture as much
as we think they do. We use a lot of
different kinds of names and acrostics
and all kinds of things, uh, alphabet
soup for some organizations.
But the influence of Christianity, the
way it's portrayed, uh, both publicly
and privately is that Christianity has
declined in its influence. And many of
you believe that and that may be true.
It may also not be true or as true as we
sometimes think it is in our world. Uh
in the maternity wards for example, the
influence of Christianity has actually
grown. It may sound strange but it is
true. Uh giving children biblical names
is not less of a thing now. It's become
more of a thing. That's surprising to me
as well. Statistically though, it is the
case. 100 years ago, Noah was the 400th
most common name.
400th.
By 1996,
Noah was the 50th most common name. By
the year 2000, it was in the top 10 most
common names. Noah, y'all all know the
story, right? Big story about a boat, a
lot of water. Noah has become now the
number one and the number two names. As
it was in the days of Noah, so shall it
be the coming of the son of man. Maybe.
Mary and Martha, however, have had
better times. They're a little less
popular today than they were in the
past. However, Elizabeth has risen to
great heights, much higher than it was a
century ago. very common today. David
was 28th in 1920.
It is 25th in 2020. It's interesting,
but there are a lot of popular names
today that people are using and straight
out of the Bible. Eden, Grace, Elijah,
John. America's changed a lot in the
last hundred years. The world has
changed a lot in the last hundred years.
But what I find interesting is actually
the Bible names for children are being
chosen more than they were a 100 years
ago. Don't you find that fascinating?
I don't know what all that means, but it
is an interesting truth.
What then are the most common biblical
names for what we are a part of right
this moment? We are in the assembly of
the Lord. This is called the church of
the Lord.
What are the appropriate names that are
given in scripture? Well, we have been
given the name church of God. It's
probably used more than any other name
in the New Testament eight or 10 times
depending on how you look at it. The
church of the living God is included in
that list. Then there's the church of
the firstborn. It's only used really one
or two times. The body of Christ is used
quite a bit, but not necessarily as a
name. And then bride of Christ is used.
The called out is used simply because
that's the meaning of the word church.
And then of course church of Christ is
used once in the scriptures. Romans
16:16.
Those are the way that referred to it.
It would be hardpressed to consider that
that was the name or that those were
ever meant to be the name. They are
appropriate names. They're appropriate
to call the church by any of those
names. and others. But in Acts, in the
book that Luke wrote, what's interesting
about the book of Acts is is that the
most exclusive name is clearly not any
of those. I mean, if you read the book
of Acts, if you read it in the King
James, you might not pick up on that.
But the closer we got to actually
translating it into the vernacular of
their day into our vernacular, we have
risen to the idea that actually the
number one name that is used as a name
by Luke in the book of Acts is the way.
So, if we were looking for the most
acceptable name in the scriptures for
naming the group of people that we are
gathered to be, it would not be any of
the names I've listed before. And they
were not really used as a name, but
rather descriptive terms. This is
actually dealt with like a name, like a
how you refer to them. Let me go through
a few of them so you see that I'm not
making that up. in Acts chapter nine
that was read a moment ago verse two
says and asked letters from him to the
synagogue of Damascus so that if any
found any who were of the way so it's
the way Luke refers to it and apparently
the way uh Paul well actually Saul at
that point referred to them whether men
or women he might bring them bound to
Jerusalem in Acts 19:es 8 and 9:9 says
but when some were hardened and did not
believe but spoke evil of the way. They
actually used that terminology to speak
evil of them before the multitude. He
departed from them and withdrew the
disciples reasoning daily in the
synagogue of Tyrannis. And Acts 19:es
23- 26 is another occasion of that.
Verse 23 alone says, "And about that
time there arose a great commotion about
the way." And then Acts 24 12-14. Verse
14 specifically says, "But this I
confess to you that according to the way
which they call a sect." So the people
on the outside knew it as the way as
well as the people on the inside
referred to it as the way which they
call a sect. So I worship. So Paul's
suggesting it actually was not a sect.
So I worshiped the God of my fathers. In
other words, the way had a particular
method, if you will, of worship, maybe
five acts as we have discussed. So I I
so I worship the God of my fathers,
believing all things which are written
in the law and in the prophets. In Acts
24 22 and 23, it says in verse 22, but
when Felix heard these things, having
more accurate knowledge of the way, he
was familiar with the terminology and
he's familiar with the beliefs of the
way. He adjourned the proceedings and
said when Liysia the commander comes
down I will make a decision on your
case. So I want to give you today seven
reasons that that was probably the use
of that term for the church
predominantly and we'll just walk
through those basically straight up.
Church Christ is a valid name. I don't
mean to make it sound like I don't
believe it's a valid name. I'm just
trying to suggest to you if we want to
call Bible things by Bible names and do
Bible things and Bible ways as we grow
and develop and dig deeper into
scriptures, anybody that would be afraid
of changing the term that we refer to it
as would be less than noble and less
like a Church of Christ member that I've
grown up with. We have always been
dedicated to the idea of being very
biblical. Amen. Amen. Walls. Okay. So
number one, the reason is the church
would be known as the way because
teaching is the way. Listen to Mark
chapter 2 verse1 14. When they had come,
they said to him, "Teacher, we know that
you are true and care about no one. For
you do not regard the person of men, but
teach the way of God in truth. Is it
lawful to pay taxes to Caesar or not?"
We're not going to deal with that right
now. Nobody likes to pay taxes, but it
is still lawful. In in Matthew 28 19 and
20, it makes it very clear. He told them
to go into all the world. Basically, he
told them to teach all nations,
baptizing them in the name of the father
and son and the holy spirit, teaching
them to observe, teaching, teaching,
teaching. So the way is full of
teaching. In fact, you cannot have a
church that doesn't teach. And if we are
not a part of the teaching process,
we're not the church that God's called
us to. We're certainly not the church of
Christ, and we're certainly not the
church that follows the way of Christ,
which is teaching. The second truth is
that Jesus is the way. And so, the
church would be and naturally would be
known as the way because Jesus is the
way. In John 14:es 4-6 it says and where
I go you know and the way you know. That
was him obviously. Verse 5 Thomas said
to him Lord we do not know where you are
going and how can we know the way. Of
course he was the way. Jesus said to
them, I am the way, the truth and the
life. And no one comes to the father
except through me. And since John 3:16
makes it very clear that those who uh
understand that God so loved the world
that he gave his only begotten son that
whoever believes in him should not
perish but have everlasting life.
Obviously his son was the way to save
the world. It always was the case that
he was the way. But if you understand
that concept, who is the group of people
that's going to share that truth except
the people who teach the way and are now
the way to teach that and to make sure
that you know who the way is. So the
church would naturally be referred to as
the way. More than that, another reason
probably the church was referred early
to as the way is salvation itself is the
way. In Acts 16:1 17 it says this, "This
girl followed Paul and us." She was
demonpossessed and cried out saying,
"These men are the servants of the most
high God who proclaimed to us the way of
salvation." So salvation is the way.
What's the point of the church if it
isn't salvation? What do we provide?
What do you possess now that you're in
the church of our Lord? You possess
salvation. It is the way. And Acts 4 and
verse 12 puts it this way. There's no
other name given among men whereby we
must be saved. And so we must be saved.
Not we, it'd be good if we were saved,
but we must be saved. And we must be
saved by the name of the Lord Jesus
himself. So salvation, it's like saying
Jesus is the way, salvation is the way.
It's like saying the same thing. And so
literally the church should be known as
the way of salvation. Number next, God
is the way. God himself is the way.
Listen to this passage. I love this one.
Acts 18:es 24- 26. Now a certain Jew
named Apollos born in Alexandria, an
eloquent man and mighty in the
scriptures came to Ephesus. Now
Alexander was known as one of the great
studious places for rebbitical teaching.
And so it was a place where people
studied all the time. Great synagogue
there. Verse 25. This man had been
instructed in the way of the Lord. But
now understand, he'd been instructed in
the way of the Lord, not knowing
anything about Jesus himself at this
point, but the way of the Lord as you
would understand it through the Old
Testament teachings and then through uh
the teachings of John the Baptizer. So
the way of the Lord and being fervent in
spirit, he spoke and taught accurately
the things of the Lord, though he knew
only the baptism of John. So he didn't
have full access and been around Jesus.
Verse 26. So he began to speak boldly in
the synagogue. When Aquilla and
Priscilla heard him, they took him aside
and explained to him the way of God.
More accurately, still the way. So the
church, what are these two brethren,
members of the church teaching? They're
teaching the way of God more accurately.
Only natural that we would get that
name. In Hebrews chapter 11 verse 6, it
says, "He that comes to God must believe
that he is or that he exists and that he
is a rewarder of those who diligently
seek him." That's our purpose. We're to
make sure that everybody knows that God
exists, but more than that, that you've
got to make an effort. It's not just
going to drop on you and you don't have
to do anything. You must diligently seek
him. That's why God is the way and that
we must tell everybody he is the way.
Number next,
peace. Peace is the way. You know
violence. This world knows a lot of
violence. But Romans 3 17-18 says, "And
the way of peace, they have not known."
Isn't that a sad state of affairs for
the world, isn't it? What they think is
peace is not peace. They think peace is
just not having a war. That's not the
meaning of peace. It's far deeper than
that. It's a blessed state of absolute
harmony with God. And the way of peace
they have not known. So they don't know
this peace. They know this peace and
they don't even know that very well. But
they don't know this peace. Verse 18,
there is no fear of God before their
eyes. You must fear God if you're going
to have peace with God. So the truth is
is that Ephesians 2 14- 15 makes it very
clear that Jesus, he himself is our
peace. He's the one that gave us peace
with God. And that's the peace that we
share with everybody. We want everybody
to have peace with God. And so the
church and the group of people that we
are a part of would naturally be known
as the way to show peace with God.
Number six,
truth is the way. Truth. In second Peter
2 and verse two, it says, "As many will
follow their destructive ways."
Talk about the world. They know they
have destructive ways. This is not one
way out there. There are many ways to
destruction. And many will follow their
destructive ways because of whom the way
of truth will be blasphemed.
Oh yeah. The way
of truth will be blasphemed. Oh boy. If
I had a penny for every time I've heard
the church of Christ talk bad about. How
many books have I seen that said you
should flee from the church of Christ
and run? How many videos have I watched
where preachers are preaching that the
Church of Christ is the ones with the
biggest problem? Yeah, there's a lot of
that out there. Talk bad about us. There
are people who talk bad about us all the
time. That's just the truth. You need to
be aware of it if you're not aware of
it. We're not ex exactly respected among
Christendom in many respects. So, I just
want to lay that with you. But here's
the truth. It is your and our duty, your
duty and my duty as the kingdom of God,
as the church of our Lord, as the way
that God has used us to reach the world.
And verse one, uh we were written to or
Paul wrote so that we might know how to
conduct ourselves in the house of God,
which is the church of the living God,
the pillar in the ground of the truth.
But then he goes on to say in chapter 6
that we need to make sure that neither
God's name nor his doctrine is
blasphemed by our behavior.
We are sold to conduct our way our life
that everybody should know what to do by
just watching us. They ought to be able
to find the way through just watching
you and me who are just happen to be the
way. And then let me go one more and
then we'll end this. Righteousness
is the way.
In second Peter 2 and verse 21 it says,
"For it would have been better for them
not to have known the way of
righteousness." That's the way you live.
That's the way you believe. It would
have been better not to have known the
way of righteousness than having known
it to turn from the holy commandment
delivered to them. There are people
within the kingdom who'll turn away, go
back into the world. But listen why we
don't. Second Corinthians 5 21 it says
that he died that we might become the
righteousness of God in him. He became
sin and died on the cross that we might
become the righteousness of God in him.
Now, we obtain that righteousness by
gift. But then there's a sanctification
process that we become more righteous as
we live in faith to God. So, we must
proclaim the righteousness that is a
gift. But we also must proclaim that
righteousness which requires
us to not do some things and to do other
things. That's the way we are to live.
And if the world perceives that we don't
stand on that kind of ground, we are no
longer the way. The way must be
proclaimed simply this. You can't do
just anything you want to do. Period.
That isn't the way. Simply put, the way
of righteousness requires you do certain
things certain ways. You can't go just
anywhere you want to. If you are going
just anywhere you want to, you don't
understand the way. If you are behaving
just any way you want to, you do not
understand the way. If you are the
captain of your soul and you do whatever
you want to do, you do not understand
the way of righteousness. We make
decisions. No, sometimes we don't. We
just find out what we're supposed to do
and we just do it. There's no decision
to be made except whether or not we're
going to do it or not. There's the
decision. So, here's the lesson. Simply
put, and think about it just a second.
We want to be biblical, right? You need
to understand that the church of our
Lord, the church of Jesus Christ is
referred to in the scriptures
predominantly, not as the church of
Christ, not as the church of God. It is
the way is the way it is referred to in
the book of Acts. I didn't make this up.
I didn't write the book of Acts. Promise
you, I wasn't there. I'm old, but I
ain't that old. Here's the truth. That
implies something. What does that imply?
Why would it be referred to that way?
Because teaching is the way and that's
what we do. Because Jesus is the way and
that's who we introduce you to. Because
salvation is the way and that's the
purpose of the church. Because God is
the way. And you can't know God outside
of the church the way you should. And
peace is the way. Because you can only
have peace with God if you have a
relationship with Jesus. Because truth
is the way. Even though some people
think your truth is not my truth, there
is a truth and truth is the way and the
church is the presenter of that and
righteousness is the way and that's who
we are. We teach righteousness. So the
church should be known as the way. Why?
Because it is.
So maybe it is the way. How else is the
world going to be reached? You tell me
this is the way.
This is the way. So names matter and the
church of Christ is biblical and that
name matters. But maybe we've missed the
message of the simple idea that we now
are the way.
And maybe you need to accept that on
your shoulders.
If you accept that on it'll change the
way you live.
if you accept it.
In the 1960s, you know, I want I was
thinking about it while I was sitting
there on the front row. Music's really
junk now.
Do Are y'all old enough to know that?
Some of you think we got great music
today. It's really bad. I remember the
50s and the 60s and the 70s and the 80s.
There's some good music back then. Does
anybody remember that? You remember long
playing albums, LPs and the Crackle
some really. And they actually could
sing. They didn't need a voice modulator
to sing. They could actually sing. The
people, a lot of people today, there's a
few out there that can see really. I'm
getting away from the point. I'm just
saying things have changed since the
60s. I really didn't mean to make that
big point about that. That's just it's
just it's really true. So, if you like
the music today, you don't know good
music. So,
San Francisco
back in the 60s. So, most of y'all are
too a lot of y'all are too young to know
this. There was a thing called hippies.
Some of you were one
probably.
They didn't bathe regularly,
but they live differently. And they live
down in Santa Cruz, California. One of
the biggest places where they lived. And
but Santa Cruz uh I mean they live
originally, excuse me, they lived in
what was called San Francisco height
Asbury and that became high rent. So
they moved to Santa Cruz. Excuse me. And
they eventually they they they didn't
want to get married. They just free
love. Everybody remember this stuff?
Free love. And it it was a different
world. I mean y'all everybody thinks
they've invented sin. Sin's been around
a long time. So free love was around and
uh they started having children and and
often they got married after they had
children. A lot of them got married and
they they tried to form a family and and
they eventually became the establishment
that they hated so much.
Initially u they didn't do what you
would normally do in normal families.
So, in a normal family, you'd name your
kid Melissa or Brett or something like
that. They they wanted to be different.
They were different. Okay? So, they
named their kids uh different names. Let
me give you a few that we know were
names of the kids. Frisbee,
Time Warp,
Spring Fever,
Moon Beam,
Earth,
Love,
Precious Promise. Now, here's the thing
is is that because that was true, the
kindergarten schools around there were
pretty they had gotten pretty well
adjusted to this group of people and the
the names of the kids because it was
kind of odd. And so they kind of got
adjusted to expecting some really odd
names. So when a kid came in with a
really odd name, they were like, "Okay,
here's another one." Okay. You know, and
so they accepted it pretty good. Well,
one of the kindergartens one day first
met Fruits Fruit Stand. And the he had
the card on his back, so they knew his
name was Fruit Stand. And the, you know,
obviously that brave family put their
kid out on the street and let him go to
school with that name, kissed him
goodbye. We love you fruit stand.
And the teachers thought, well, that's
not too odd. And so they started all day
when he's first day at school they said
would you like to play with the blocks
fruit stand
and fruit stand didn't say much but a
lot of the kids are shy and then later
he said fruit stand how about a snack
and you know he's a little bit hesitant
but eventually he ate a snack at the end
of the day you know his name didn't seem
all that much different from Heather or
Sunbeam it all seemed about the same and
it was dismissal time and the teachers
had to lead the children out to get on
their buses to the appropriate bus to
get them to their appropriate stop. And
so to know that exactly uh they went up
to Fruit Stand and said, "Fruit, do you
know which one is your bus that you've
got to ride to get your approved stop?"
He didn't answer, which wasn't strange
because he'd been very quiet all day,
not really responding whenever they
spoke to him. Hadn't answered anything.
finally and felt he was just shy. So, it
didn't really matter because the
teachers on the one side of the card
that was pinned to their back was uh
their name. On the flip side was the
location in the bus where they should
actually drop the kid off. And they
flipped the card over and when they did
it read Anthony.
I was in Reader's Digest, so it was
pretty good, I felt. But it makes a
point. I mean that that
we may think that names don't matter.
But but but names actually do matter. It
describes everything. And you may think
that that everything I've said today is
not significant.
But actually, if you're a Bible student,
what we just looked at, we needed to
look at
because we need to be more respectful of
this
and whatever it says whenever it makes
you comfortable or when it makes you
uncomfortable. That because that's who
we claim to be, Bible students.
speaking where the Bible speaks,
being silent where the Bible is silent,
calling Bible things by Bible names, and
doing Bible things and Bible ways. And
if that's a new saying to you, you
haven't been around the Church of Christ
very much because that's us. That's who
we are. That's who I are.
And I intend to be that when I check out
at the end. Not going to waver away from
that.
So, we need to tell the world about the
way. And we're the messengers of the
way. And so, the idea is we've got a job
to do. We don't just have a title, we
have a job. And that's why it's called
that. Here's what I want you to leave
you with. It's I I the church. I once
asked a group of elders I was thinking
about taking a job with. I think it's
about the time I took this one. I asked
a bunch of elders said, "What do y'all
think about the church?" Guy talked for
about 5 minutes. I couldn't figure out
what in the world he's talking about. I
said, "Well, well, let me try this a
different way. I There's five elders
sitting around me that day at this other
church." And I said, "Well, I believe
the church is essential. I believe go to
heaven, you got to be a member of the
church. What do you believe?" God talked
for five more minutes. Had no idea what
he believed.
I believe the church is essential. I
don't believe you go to heaven without
being a member of the church. How's that
one? I believe the reason I believe
that's because you have to be in the
church to claim you're saved because
that's what the church is. It's the way
to God. It is the way in every sense of
the word. It's the way. What is the way?
The way is Jesus. Yes. THE WAY IS GOD.
YES. The way is teaching. Yes. The way
is peace. Yes. The way is truth. Yes.
The way of salvation, yes. The way is
righteousness, yes, it's all of that.
And that's what we're supposed to be
about, which basically means this. We
teach you must believe in Jesus.
And if you really believed in Jesus,
you would have to change. Your heart
would change. You can't say you believe
in Jesus and your heart stay the same.
If your heart's the same, you don't
believe in Jesus. But if you believe he
is the son of God and the savior of the
world, you're changed by that
understanding. That's called repentance.
And then you know what? You can't help
it. You've got to swear allegiance to
him. He is my Lord. He is my Savior. I
believe he rose from the dead. You have
to say it out loud. And if you say it
out loud, you're going to say it to
other people, which means you're
probably going to tell us that. And you
know what we're going to do? We're going
to take that old man that's decided to
die to the way he was, and we're going
to bury you in a watery grave of
baptism. And you're going to come up a
different person. And guess who you're
going to be? You're going to be the way
that everybody else finds the path to
Jesus. And if that sounds like something
you want to be a part of, the invitation
is yours while we stand. And as we say,
