Now, it's funny to me that Christmas
songs are famous that are kind of odd.
Have you noticed that they're kind of
unusual some of them? For example,
how do you open, you know, Christmas is
all about joy, right? How do you open a
Christmas song with a threat? Oh, you
better watch out. I don't know. It just
seems we're all getting together for
something positive. Oh, you better watch
out. You're at Christmas now. And here's
one that's really puzzling. Have you
ever thought through this? I won't sing
it for you. I don't want to impress you.
So, with a bad impression. Uh, you know,
you know Dasher
and Dancer and Prancer and Vixen, Comet
and Cupid and Donner and Blitzen.
U But do you recall the most famous
reindeer of all? Rudolph the red-nosed
reindeer. I don't know. How can you
admit that I know eight almost unknown
reindeers and then then ask me if I
don't know the most famous one of all?
That doesn't make any sense to me at
all. Why in the world do you do that?
Who knew the names of the eight until
this song? Well, we all knew Rudolph.
What's going on? I think there's a lot
of those. I mean, you know, like up on
the housetop. There's a lot of things
that we could sing about. It just seems
funny to me. But this song, oh holy
night, the basic information about that
song is a French guy named Capo uh wrote
a poem and uh can't pronounce that
French words, two French words and it
looks like minute creat.
And uh he did that because a priest had
asked him to write a Christmas poem
celebrating
the renovation of an organ. So it's kind
of out there, right? That's where this
comes from. I know. Sounds strange,
doesn't it? And then uh a guy named
Adam, also a French guy, composed the
music for this poem. Now the Capo did it
in 1843. The music wasn't composed until
1847 and it was performed at some
special event in France in 1847.
But then it came over to English.
Dwight, you'll appreciate this guy named
Sullivan, John Sullivan Dwight, that was
his name, John Sullivan Dwight, his
American uh minister in 1855.
He translated it into English and that's
where we got Oh holy night. That's how
you've heard it. And three verses that
are there. And this is not going to be a
long or complicated lesson, but I think
these three truths that are embedded
here will make you listen to it a little
closer next time you hear it. The first
lesson I want you to see is
his appearance gave us worth.
That's a deep thought.
John 3:16, for God so loved the world
that he gave his only begotten son.
Okay. Son us.
Have you thought about that just a
second?
most important one in heaven
got dropped to being crushed
so that these creatures that God has
made could be elevated.
Uh for God so loved the world that he
gave his only begotten son that whoever
believes in him should not perish but
have everlasting life. Luke 1 12:7
the very hairs of your head are all
numbered. Do do not fear therefore
you're more valuable than many spare. I
heard one preacher say that doesn't mean
he knows how many hairs on your head.
That'd be easy for some, I guess, but
easier.
But it means number 237 just fell out.
The hairs are numbered.
282 still in there.
I don't know. But I thought that was
interesting. I never heard it put that
way. Most of us just say, "Well, I know
about how many we got." And we know that
different color hair has different
amounts as a whole.
But that you have worth
because of this truth. The song goes,
"Oh holy night, the stars are brightly
shining. It is the night of the dear
Savior's birth. Long lay the world in
sin and error pining till he appeared
and the soul felt its worth. The only
reason that you should think that we
have worth is because of this.
A thrill of hope. The weary world
rejoices for you under breaks and new
and glorious mourn. Fall on your knees.
Oh hear the angels voices. Oh night not
divine. Oh night not when Christ was
born. Oh not divine. Oh not. Oh not
divine.
His appearance
in that manger
said you're worth something to him. Now
you say well it's worth something to
God. Doesn't mean he's worth something.
No. Wait a second. This is the most
important being there is. And the most
important being there is gave the most
important being in heaven to die for
you. And if you don't understand that,
that means you're important to him. You
may not be important to you tonight. You
may have doubts about your value.
But God, but God
sees you differently, whether you see it
that way or not.
Second truth,
this kind of goes hand in hand, this
birth and worth. His birth gave us
friendship.
In Luke 12:4 it says, "And I say to you,
my friends,
do not be afraid of those who kill the
body and afterward after that have no
more that they can do."
You hear what he's talking to you? This
is not just to the disciples there. It's
to all disciples everywhere. My friends,
my friends.
How about that?
Do you know you're the friend of God?
My friend,
John 15:13-15,
greater love has no one than this, than
to lay down one's life for his friends.
There've been a many battlefield
where a man did it.
A man died to save his friends on many
battlefields throughout the history of
the world. That's for your friends. You
are my friends if you do whatever I
command you. No longer do I call you
servants. For a servant does not know
what his master is doing. But I have
called you friends. For all things that
I heard from my father have made known
to you.
God looks at you like a friend.
A friend. What a statement.
The second verse.
Led by the light of faith serenely
beaming with glowing hearts by his
cradle we stand. So led by the light of
a star sweetly gleaming there came the
wise men from Orient land. The king of
kings lay thus in lowly manger. In all
our trials born to be our friend.
He knows our need. To our weakness is no
stranger. Behold your king. Before him,
lowly bend. Behold your king. Before
him, lowly bend. He took on all of our
weakness. We have no better friend. I
think we even sing a song, don't we? We
We don't know how to describe it. So, we
just say, "What what a friend we have in
Jesus."
all our needs and griefs to bear. What a
privilege it is to carry everything to
God in prayer. To to be able to say the
most magnificent being there is at all
is our friend.
That's big stuff, folks. His birth gave
us friendship with God.
Number three,
his disciplehip gave us freedom.
His disciplehip. In John chapter 8
verses 31-36, it says this. Then Jesus
said to those Jews who believed him, if
you in my word, that means listen,
study, do it what it says. If you abide
in my word, you are my disciples indeed.
Absolutely. There's no question you're a
disciple of Jesus if you abide in his
word. Verse 32, "And you shall know the
truth, and the truth shall make you
free." Do you hear that? Freedom.
33. They answered him, "We are Abraham's
descendants and have never been bondage
to anyone." They seem to forget Egypt.
They seem to forget Babylon. I don't
know how they couldn't remember those
two great events. Let me read that over
you. and we are Abraham's descendants
and have never been in bondage to
anyone. How can you say you will be made
free? So mocking his terminology. Verse
34, Jesus answered them, most assuredly
I say to you, whoever commit sin is a
slave of sin. He's not setting you free
from everything that can possibly be
oppressive in this world at any given
moment. He is setting you free from the
most important thing that you are a
slave to, which is sin. Verse 35. And a
slave does not abide in the house
forever, but a son abides forever. So
you're not you're in trouble if you're
just a slave to sin. Verse 36.
Therefore, if the son makes you free,
you shall be free indeed. His death on
the cross freed us from the guilt of sin
that we could be saved eternally. That
is the freedom we stand in. Freed from
the idea that we are damned. No longer.
No longer. no longer bound to be a slave
to sin. And Galatians 5 and verse one
puts it this way. Stand fast, therefore
in the liberty by which Christ has made
us free and do not be entangled again
with the yoke of bondage. Now, what did
he say in that song that catches you on
this point? Look at verse three. Truly,
he taught us to love one another. His
law is love and his gospel is peace.
chains shall he break for the slave is
our brother and in his name all will
cease. Now he's using now and I'll
explain why it went this direction and
not to just to the sin thing. It is
related to the guy who wrote this and
you'll understand in just a moment when
I tell you more about him anyway. So all
oppressions shall see. So that includes
sin oppression. Sweet hymns of joy and
grateful chorus raised. We let all
within us praise his holy name. Christ
is the Lord. Oh, praise his name
forever. His power and glory ever more
proclaim. His power and glory ever more
proclaimed. Thi this is one of the
greatest hymns out there. I really
believe on this subject. So the the
three lessons we we just looked at there
it is. So his appearance gave us worth.
His birth
tells us we have a friend with God. And
his disciplehip gives us that freedom
from sin that we're all really looking
for. Truly, oh Holy Night is a great
song, one of the greatest, but it's even
greater.
And I'm going to give you about three
reasons you ought to look at this song
differently than you've ever looked at
it before when I get through. And these
are all external. These are now not in
the scriptures. What I'm fixing to tell
you about that song should almost give
you chill bumps. Okay?
Keepo
wrote this song. He lived between 1808
and 1877.
this French poet
at eight years old, a playmat, he was
probably destined to be just like his
dad. His dad was a barrel maker. They
called him a cooper back then. When he
was eight, he and his playmate were
playing together. Kids, listen up.
Playing together. Somehow they got a
hold of a gun and they were playing with
a gun. His friend shot his hand. It had
to be amputated. He lost his hand. So he
went the rest of his life with only one
hand, mostly kind of part of an arm
there.
The shooter's father paid for his
education, which kept him from being a
barrel maker. That's how he rose to the
abilities that he did have. He studied
law in Paris. He became a practice law.
He was a merchant. He focused on
literature. And you listen to all that
because this was not a religious man.
That's right. The guy who wrote one of
the greatest songs was not a religious
man. In fact, it was worse than that.
Uh, a priest, Father,
I think the way you would say it, asked
him to write a Christmas poem to
celebrate, like I said, the organ being
redone.
I think he did it probably for money. I
don't know. It doesn't say. But he
agreed despite the fact that he was an
avowed atheist. He didn't believe
anything he wrote about.
He was anti-cleric. He was anti-urch.
He's anti- good. And he wrote one of the
greatest songs that we have. That's the
first little surprise about this song.
Let me take you to the second one.
That's extra biblical as well. There was
a lady an opera singer who heard it who
heard Oh Holy Night and wanted to sing
it is it was she wanted to be a part of
that because she loved the song the
words of it so much. So she
researched Luke. She read it over and
over again. And Emily Laorray
went and asked her friend Adolf Adam
who happened to be a Jewish friend who
did not believe in Jesus.
And this man composed the music for it
written by an atheist
written by a man who doesn't believe in
Jesus. The two came together to write
one of the greatest hymns of all. Wait,
that's just two surprises. Okay, because
of that, now listen, the Catholic Church
would not allow it to be played for a
very long time because, well, an atheist
wrote it and a Jew wrote the music to
it. So, neither one of them believe this
is just all hypocrisy. We're not going
to have any part in that. But it became
so popular as you see to this day, Oh
Holy Night, one of the most popular
hymns out there. So God took an atheist
and a Jew who neither of them believed
in Jesus and carved out a great
Christmas hymn. There's a message in
that, my friend.
God can use almost anybody and
accomplish what God wants to be done.
But wait, there's another surprise
coming.
So I think those are two pretty pretty
big surprises about one of these Ms. But
let me go a little further. There's a
side story. In 1906, Reginald
Fininsson, a 33-year-old university
professor, he was a chemist and he
worked for Thomas Edison. Heard of
Thomas Edison?
He did something that was thought
impossible and nobody had actually
attempted it.
He used a generator, a type of a
generator,
not it was very basic.
And he spoke into a microphone for the
first time in history and a voice was
broadcast over the airwaves. Now, there
weren't airwaves as you and now know
them, but rather the wireless
is over the wireless, which isn't
anything like what we've got today.
and he read
Luke and it came to pass in those days
that a decree went out from Caesar
Augustus that all the world should be
taxed. first scriptures read were read
over a wireless ever broadcast. And it
was so weird because they were used to
only getting Morris code. And you
wouldn't have thought that that would
have come through to those little
speakers that would give you Morris
code, but it went through and they heard
this and people didn't know what they
were hearing. They were shocked because
that had never happened before.
So, they're listening to Luke being read
to them, but I haven't told you about
the song yet, right? So, when he got
through reading that over the wire and
people sitting around going, "Where is
that coming from? How did that happen?"
He then picked up a violin and he played
the first song that was ever played on
wireless or basically broadcast ever,
ever in the history of the world was Oh
Holy Night.
I don't know. Something about that just
gives me a little bit of a chill bumps
to me. I'm sitting here so
nothing could stop this message. An
atheist couldn't stop the message. A one
who doesn't believe Jesus is the Messiah
couldn't stop the message. And something
that's not even supposed to be able to
do what it did because it wasn't
designed to do that. Put the message out
of Oh Holy Night. Yeah, I think that's
pretty fabulous. Pretty fascinating. The
whole world was stunned that night. So
in a way when that was broadcast, wasn't
that a holy night? I think so.
So more
God had the most unlikely song. One of
the first ones ever aired. So
So could this be a holy night? See, I
think it's all about what happens on the
night that made it holy, right? Because
365 days a year, we have a night every
night, you know, until the Lord comes.
You got one every night. Could this be a
holy night? Yeah. What does it take holy
things to happen? So, I guess what I
really like to say to you is if you're
not really right with the Lord tonight,
this could be the most holy night of
your life.
I mean, if you need to obey the gospel,
there might be someone here that has
been thinking about that. That would be
wonderful. That alone would make it a
holy night.
But if someone came forward tonight
because they've got sin in their life
and they need to repent of that, that
would make it a holy night because you
know just one person who really needs to
repent. There's joy in heaven over that.
But you know what? You don't have to
come forward. If there's someone sitting
there that needs to change about
something that nobody knows but you,
you can take care of that right where
you are in a very real way.
That would be a holy night for you.
If God can use an atheist
and one who doesn't believe in the
Messiah
and a radio that ain't a radio,
what could he do with you?
So why don't you if you need to come
tonight while we stand and sing.
