I told you that a couple of weeks ago I
told you that we wanted to look at Joy
to the World uh which is an Isaac Watts
song. Now Isaac Watts lived between 1674
and 1748.
He was a school master and uh but he was
a remarkable student. Um his father had
been a school master before him and so
he learned Latin. Kids listen up. When
he was four,
he could do verse like poetry like for
these songs. At seven, he learned Greek
at 8. He learned French. By the time he
was 11, he knew Hebrew at the age of 13.
He went to the academy of Thomas Row in
London to study the scriptures at 16. He
became an assistant minister at the age
of 24 and he became the minister of that
same church in London at the age of 28.
Um he was considered a denter
congregationalist
and you probably don't know what that
means. That's fine. as a little man. And
I'm a short guy. You all y'all know I'm
not big guy, but this guy was shorter
than me. 5 foot tall at best. 5 foot.
They say he had a large head. Did not
really fit his body. And he wore a wig
in those days. So it made him It is a
big wig. So I guess that's where that
comes from. Big wigs. But anyway, he he
wore a big wig and it made his head look
extra large. They say he had a hooked
nose and he had very small eye eyes and
he was frail most of his life and his
body was actually sick sickly. And so
they actually had some ugly things to
say about the way he looked.
There was a beautiful and accomplished
young lady who saw and read some of his
poetry and his songs and literally fell
in love with his ability to write. Y'all
know we have quite a number of our songs
that were written by Isaac Watts. This
one is just one example, but she fell in
love with him in a sense from his
writings. So she made it a point to meet
him and then she saw him and she
declined him and this is what she said
to him. Let this stick with you if you
think you've had something kind of harsh
said to you about your looks. Mr. Watts,
I only wish I could say that I admire
the casket as much as I admire the
jewel.
He took it pretty good. Uh they remained
friends for about 30 years but he never
married. Uh Montgomery
uh calls Watts quote the greatest name
among himwriters. He published between
750 and 800 hymns which many of us have
sung his songs.
This particular song was written when he
was 45
in 1719.
That's 306 years ago if you're counting.
So, uh, 306 years ago, he wrote, "Joy to
the world. The Lord is come. Let earth
receive her king. Let every heart
preparing room and heaven and nature
sing. King sing.
Joy to the earth, the Savior reigns. Our
mortal songs employ
while fields and floods, rocks, hills
and plains repeat the sounding joy.
Employ joy.
No more let sin and sorrow grow, nor
thorns infest the ground. He comes to
make his blessings flow. For as the
curse is found, ground and found. He
rules the world with truth and grace and
makes the nations prove the glories of
his righteousness and wonders of his
love. Prove Lou.  It doesn't
rhyme, but anyway, that's the the
rhymage in the song. But the world uh
literally likes to complain.
And so it's kind of funny to me that one
of the major songs is about joy and yet
at this time of the year people seem to
find a way to complain. Uh we often are
not joyful. It kind of reminds me of
people that are portrayed in in several
stories that we have which I assume
aren't true like Mr. Potter and A
Wonderful Life. Uh great movie. If you
haven't seen it, it's a great Christmas
movie. a wonderful life by Jimmy Stewart
and Mr. Potter is this hateful old guy
that's mean and all about money and he's
uh you know really cares more about
money than he does people. Then of
course in that same spirit at this time
of the year and that was at Christmas
time. Same spirit this time of the year
is Ebenezer Scrooge Christmas Carol
nothing about people only cares about
money. And then of course for whatever
reason we don't really know why. I mean
we could go into it. We we had a
psychologist here, we might could get
into it why, but the past traumas,
resentment, childhood hurts, ridicule,
bitterness, a small heart from a
perceived lack of love, I don't know.
But it's led uh the Grinch to have a bad
attitude. If the Grinch could be said to
be a human, I don't know what the Grinch
actually was. But so that's Mr. Potter
and Scrooge and Grinch that seem to
portray this Christmas time attitude.
So, you start wondering, is there really
a Christmas time attitude? That's kind
of negative. Uh why though that many
stories around Christmas? Have you ever
wondered why why that? Maybe maybe it's
because somebody at Christmas has seen a
little bit of not so joyful out of
supposed people who's supposed to be a
little bit joyful. There were uh bunch
of people on an elevator and this you
know they were really stacked in there
shopping for Christmas gifts and this
lady came in with a bunch of bags
herself and kind of pushed her way in,
shoved her way in so they get the door
shut. You've probably been on an
elevator like that really too tight
before she came and she had a bunch of
things she's minding. She got on there
and as she got on and the doors are
closing, she blurted out. You could tell
she is already irritated. She blurted
out, "Whoever is responsible for this
whole Christmas thing ought to be
arrested, strung up, and shot." And
people, you know, Yeah. and nodded their
head and grunted. And somewhere in the
back somebody said kind of quietly don't
worry lady they already crucified him.
So I think that is the tendency within
us though to feel like we we really need
to complain. In fact I think it's almost
we want to out complain each other. It's
kind of like that uh luxury thing the
four horsemen thing the English thing
where it's uh you know you think you've
had it tough. I'll tell you how tough it
is. But uh maybe that's the spirit. I I
don't know. But there is a grumpiness
that hits us about right now. You hear
me? So I want to challenge you to not be
grumpy.
That during the holidays, we're
Christians. Let's try not to be grumpy.
I know things are going to get tight.
You got to cook. You got to have people
over. And you may be spending more money
than you feel like you should. Try not
to go there. Let's look at some reasons
to be joyful. Okay, that's what I want
to look at tonight. And really, there's
a bunch of them, so I need to get
moving. There's actually 10. You're not
supposed to have 10 points to a sermon
unless you're Moses. Okay, number one,
the joy found in the Lord's presence.
Psalm 16:11, you will show me the path
of life. In your presence is fullness of
joy. At your right hand are pleasure.
that probably has in mind heaven, but I
don't think it's just talking about
heaven. I think when we really are aware
of the presence of the Lord, we're
joyful. The second one is the joy found
in the Lord's justice. We should be
rejoicing when we see justice. Proverbs
21:15, it is a joy for the just to do
justice, but destruction will come to
the workers of iniquity. So literally, I
think as children of God, when we see
justice come, even when we're a little
iffy about it, but the fact that justice
flows, we should be more joyful. The
third one, the joy found in the Lord's
praise. In the Lord's praise. Jeremiah
33:11,
"The voice of joy and the voice of
gladness, the voice of the bridegroom
and the voice of the bride, the voice of
those who will say, "Praise the Lord of
hosts, for the Lord is good, for his
mercy endures forever, and of those who
will bring the sacrifices of praise into
the house of the Lord. For I will cause
the captives of the land return as at
the fur, says the Lord." How does he say
it? That's the voice of joy. When you
truly are in the worship, when you truly
are singing your praises, when it truly
means something to you, there are few
joys on earth any greater than that.
Then next, the joy found in the Lord's
strength. Nehemiah 8:10. Another source
of joy. Then he said to them, "Go your
way, eat the fat, drink the sweet, and
send portions to those for whom nothing
is prepared." What a great thing to do
in the middle of holidays. And then for
this day is holy to our Lord. Do not
sorrow for the joy of the Lord is your
strength. So literally joy is found in
the Lord's strength, in the Lord's
praise. And then also joy is found in
the Lord's sacrifice. Listen to Matthew
13:44. Again, the kingdom of heaven is
like treasure hidden in a field which a
man found and hid and for joy over it
goes and sells all that he has and buys
that field. You're willing to sacrifice
everything to have that joy all the
time. And then I believe this is number
six, the joy found in the Lord's
persecution. That may sound strange to
you if you don't feel like you've ever
been persecuted. The truth is every
child of God is persecuted. But the word
persecuted does not mean mean what we
tend to think it means. It doesn't
literally mean you're getting beaten or
killed or anything like that. The word
literally in the Greek just means to be
pursued. Someone's after you to kind of
get at you. If anybody's after you to
get after you because you are trying to
do what's right, then you've been
persecuted. That's the meaning of the
word. In Luke 6:es 22 and 23 it says,
"Blessed are you when men hate you and
when they exclude you and revile you and
cast out your name as evil." You ever
had any of those things happen? Most of
us have. For the son of man's sake. Did
you do it for the son of man's sake?
Verse 23. Rejoice in that day and leap
for joy. Jump up and down. Doesn't sound
like something we do very often. For
indeed your reward is great in heaven.
For in like manner their fathers did to
the prophets. That's the way it's always
been. The people who are trying to do
right are opposed to the point that they
are pursued. Number seven, the joy found
in the Lord's repentance.
When we see repentance, Luke 15:10,
likewise I say to you here, there is joy
in the presence of the angels of God
over one sinner who repents. You say,
"Well, when does that happen?" Well, I
believe it happens when somebody
repents, but I think it happens when we
get to heaven and we were the sinner
that repented and we have joy in the
presence of the angels. So, I think
repentance, true repentance, just brings
joy. Number eight, the joy found in the
Lord's children. In John 16 21, it says
this, "A woman when she is in labor has
sorrow." There's nothing fun about that
part as far as I can tell from any woman
I've been around when they were having a
baby. When she is in labor, has sorrow
because her hour has come. But as soon
as she has given birth to the child, she
no longer remembers the anguish for joy
that a human being has been born into
the world. I believe that one of the
greatest joys that we get to experience
in this world is seeing children. I wish
we'd just have more. Truth is, children
of God should have the most kids on
earth because we have the chance of
populating the world one way or the
other with good Christians. Number nine,
the joy found in the Lord's fruit
because it literally tells us it's one
of the fruits that we should expect if
we're filled with the spirit of God.
Galatians 2:22, but the fruit of the
spirit is love, joy, peace,
longsuffering, kindness, goodness, and
faithfulness. So one of the fruit of the
fruit of the spirit itself being within
us. We should be people of joy. If you
claim to be filled with the spirit of
God, you should be a person of joy, not
a person who just gripes about
everything. Number 10. So we're there.
We are. Can you believe we got through
10? Look at this. We might even get out
tonight. Wait, I got a lot. No, I'm just
kidding.
The joy found in the Lord's heaven. The
Lord's heaven. 1 Thessalonians 2:19. For
what is our hope or joy, our crown of
rejoicing?
Is it not even you
in the presence of our Lord Jesus Christ
at his coming? What what will make
heaven sweeter? The Lord, obviously,
not the place. But what's the other
thing? What makes heaven sweet is seeing
the Lord and seeing you guys. There it
is. There it is. the joy of heaven. So
that's that's a lot to be thankful for
and I think it should it should in you
know it says joy to the world. So let's
let's get in our head some of the things
that that joy really is. I'm going to
focus on the first one in just a moment.
The joy found in the Lord's presence
when we're together like right now, when
we're in prayer, when we're singing,
just being in his presence in the Lord's
justice
reign in the Lord's praise when we hear
it in the Lord's strength that comes
from that joy in the Lord's sacrifice.
It obviously was something that gave God
great joy and it will give you great joy
when you make sacrifices to have
whatever it is God wants to give you.
And the Lord's persecution when you
finally figure out the reason that they
were so ugly to you was because you were
trying to do the right thing, rejoice.
And in the Lord's repentance, if you're
not aware and get excited when you see
someone else repent, know that they do
in heaven. And then when you get to
heaven and you reflect on your
repentance, that'll be joy in the
presence of the angels of heaven there
because you'll reflect and you'll be so
happy you did. In the Lord's children,
when children are born, in the Lord's
fruit, the fruit of the spirit, and in
the Lord's heaven, joy was never meant,
listen to this, joy was never meant to
be for the wicked. It belongs to us.
So, be positive.
I know things get tight. Maybe it can be
difficulted. Maybe you've got bad
memories around the holidays. I
understand there's always tough things
happen. We're human. We have tough
things that happen. But try to figure
out a way to rejoice. Listen to what
Mary Oliver said. She wrote on this
subject, and she's got one sentence here
that I can't leave out, so I need to
read the whole thing.
If you suddenly and unexpectedly feel
joy, don't hesitate. Give into it. There
are plenty of lives, whole towns
destroyed or about to be. We are not
wise and not very often kind. And much
can never be redeemed. Still, life has
some possibility left. Perhaps
 this is its way of
fighting back. that sometimes
sometimes
something happens better than all the
riches or power in the world. It could
be anything, but very likely you notice
it in the instant when love begins.
Anyway, that's often the case. Anyway,
whatever it is, don't be afraid of its
plenty. Joy. Listen to this sentence.
Joy is not made to be a crumb.
Joy was never made to be a crumb.
I want to talk about this presence of
the Lord and then I'm going to be done.
In modern China, Christians gather
and it's often illegal. If it's not
illegal, it's heavily monitored.
There's an underground church that's
quietly thriving in China. We don't talk
about it much, but we're aware of it.
They have no grand buildings. They have
no live stream.
There's whispers. They have house
meetings.
They have handwritten Bibles. You know
that? Handwritten
Bibles.
No sound systems,
no special lighting,
no musical instruments. They're like us.
No programs
yet thriving
in a gathering that could lead to the
end of everything you hold dear in this
life. And yet they meet.
They meet week after week, often in
homes
under the cover of darkness.
Why?
Because there is joy in being together.
There is joy in worshiping God.
There is joy in God's presence.
The early church
had a document called the dedicay or
dachi, however you want to say it's
dedicay, I believe, gives us a glimpse
into their gatherings. Here's what that
says that they did. They had prayers.
They had the breaking of bread, Lord's
supper, singing psalms. They had a lot
of ordinary acts that we have. The early
centuries of the church were in a period
where it really wasn't accepted. And for
a while it was outright illegal to go to
church. Following Jesus was actually
dangerous in locations to to a degree
that's still this case. To be baptized
wasn't just a spiritual step. It was
kind of a potential death sentence and
waiting in certain areas.
And many of those early believers went
to their death.
But let me tell you about that. Without
going through Fox book, B book of
martyrs or something like that, they
often went to their dare singing.
That's right.
Christians were led into Roman arenas to
be executed.
And they would sing hymns, not durges,
not laments. They would sing songs of
joy
because they had been in the presence of
God.
One of the most well doumented examples
of that is Pua uh Perpetua I think is
what you actually say it.
Two young women imprisoned in North
Africa around 203 AD.
On the day of their execution, they were
marched out of their dungeon into the
arena. And witnesses said this that they
walked with dignity
and as they walked, they sang.
They couldn't contain their joy. They
couldn't stop it. It didn't seem to be
because they were safe. Obviously, they
sang because they had been in the
presence of God.
And they love the presence of God. It
was their greatest joy. and they were
fixing to be in the presence of God.
Richard Wbrand was a Romanian preacher
during the communist takeover in the mid
20th century. You may remember some of
you old enough when Romania was taken.
He was arrested for his preaching and he
spent 14 years in prison.
He was in uh solitary confinement for
much of that time. And during that time,
he was tortured.
He was starved.
And he was forbidden to speak the name
of Jesus at all.
He was held in often deep darkness. And
in that deep darkness,
he found joy.
He later wrote about it. A book he
wrote.
He tells about when he is barely able to
stand because there's no food, it's
dark, no light, no music, no Bible. And
he said
he would dance
for joy alone. For he said this, I've
danced for joy in the cell where I was
kept for three years because I felt the
presence of the Lord. There's no choir.
There's no crowd.
Nobody to see it. Just Jesus
and the power of the presence of God. It
turns out a prison became his sanctuary.
Turns out a man can sing when he has
broken ribs because he's been beaten.
Turns out even when he has bare feet in
the darkness
and he's cold, he can dance and praise
to God. Warburn Warbrand would embrace
from prison this spirit to the point but
when he came out he says he was not
bitter and he was not angry. He was
actually full of compassion and joy.
I'm just suggesting to you that joy to
the world is possible
if we decide what joy really comes from.
If we see it, we see where it really
comes from. And the number one place
tonight you should see it comes from is
the Lord.
The Lord.
If you're in the presence of the Lord
tonight, you experience a little bit of
it. You ever go to church and it doesn't
feel like it mean anything?
Look at me.
Are you there right now?
You ever been to church
and it just washes over you? It means
nothing.
You know why that happens?
You weren't in his presence before you
got here.
If you prepare yourself for worship,
you'll be in his presence when you get
here.
Don't come to church again without
preparing.
Prepare yourself.
When you come in here, we're going to do
it together and approach his throne. You
will find the joy that will make you
hardly able to sing the songs we sing.
It has nothing, listen to me, nothing to
do with the quality of the lesson. It
has nothing nothing to do with the
quality of the prayer. It has nothing to
do with the quality or the excellence of
the preparation of the person who gives
you the Lord's supper. It has nothing to
do with whether or not we sing songs on
key or not. It has to do with you and
whether or not you were in the presence
of the Lord before you got here. If you
go into the presence of the Lord and you
really prepare yourself for worship,
this is one of the most emotional
moments in your life. If it's never
emotional to you in here, it's your
fault. It is you. You need to find the
joy of the presence of the Lord. That's
where it's at. It's not this. It's not
this. It's you with him. Are you with
them?
Are you?
When you are,
the joy of the Lord is your strength.
Joy to the world because the Lord has
come into here.
If you're here tonight and you've not
given your life to the Lord,
we can't do that for you. But we can
help you along the path. We can help you
to repent and confess Christ and be
baptized. We'll help you. We'll help
you. But you got to make that choice. Am
I going to receive him or not? Am I
going to get into his presence? You see,
I'm expecting to go to church and them
to pump him into me. That never happens.
It can't happen. I can't pour him into
you. If you thought that's happened, you
were mistaken. You decided to receive
him. That's when it happens. You reach
out for him. You prepare yourself for
him and suddenly joy to the world.
The Lord's come. If you need to come,
come while we stand, while we sing.
