Good morning.
The scripture today will be read from
John 13
1-15.
It's uh Jesus washes his followers feet.
And the word says it was almost time for
the Jewish Passover festival. Jesus knew
that that time had come for him to leave
this world and go back to the father.
Jesus had always loved the people in the
world who were his.
Now was the time he showed them his love
the most. Jesus and his followers were
at evening meal. The devil had already
persuaded Judas a caric to hand Jesus
over to his enemies. Judas was the son
of Simon.
The father had given Jesus power over
everything.
Jesus knew this. He also knew he had
come from God. And he knew that he was
going back to God.
So while they were eating, Jesus stood
up, took off his robe. He got a towel,
wrapped it around his waist. Then he
poured water in a bowl, and began to
wash his followers feet.
He dried their feet with a towel that
was wrapped around his waist.
He came to Simon Peter. But Peter said
to him, "Lord, you should not wash my
feet." Jesus answered, "You don't know
what I am doing now, but later you will
understand." Peter said, "No, you will
never wash my feet." Jesus answered, "If
I don't wash your feet, you are not one
of my people."
Simon Peter said, 'Lord, after you wash
my feet, wash my hands and my head too.
Jesus said, "After a person has a bath,
his whole body is clean. He needs only
to wash his feet. And you are clean, but
not all of you." Jesus knew who would
hand him over to his enemies. That is
why he he said, "Not all of you are
clean."
Jesus finished washing their feet. He
put on his clothes and went back to the
table. He asked, "Do you understand what
I have did for you? You call me teacher
and you call me Lord and in this is
right because that is who I am. I am
your Lord and Teacher. But I washed your
feet so you also should wash each
other's feet." I did this as an example
for you so you should serve each other
as I have served you. May be seated.
Good morning church.
Been a interesting week for our family.
Grateful to be here this morning. Thank
you for being here today. If you're
visiting with us, God bless you for
coming our way. Uh this is an exciting
day for us, but it's always a great day
when we're able to worship God the
Father in spirit and truth. Amen. It's
always a good day when we can share the
truth about Jesus. It's always a good
day when someone can be transformed by
the power of the word of God. It's
always a good day when we decide to
serve others. And I hope that is what
spirit is in our hearts today as we
gather. And I hope you uh like what
we're doing here. If you're new to us,
if you like what we're doing, take a
look, go to the website, use that QR
code, maybe take a picture of that and
go see what we're doing. Love for you to
be a part of that great work we're
trying to do. We have finally got down
to the wire here, folks. It is
ordination Sunday. Seemed like it wasn't
going to get here forever, didn't it?
Cuz it's a long haul to get here. But
thank the Lord, we are finally here. Um,
if you would, let's begin with a word of
prayer. Pray with me.
Holy Father,
as you have humbly
served us in so many ways,
you served us in creation.
You served us by and in revelation.
You served us through the incarnation of
Christ
and in so many ways through Jesus. You
served us in his teaching.
You served us in the way he lived and
how we should live as he lived. You
served us in the way that he died.
Dying that death on the cross. Father,
you served us when you raised him from
the dead.
He served us as he became a servant and
teaching us to take up the towel and be
a servant as well.
Father, let us also take up that towel
and serve. We pray for all of our elders
and all of the men who will be ordained
today, Father, that they will take up
the towel of servants and be exactly
what we need in this congregation at
this time by your grace. It's in the
name of Jesus we pray. Amen.
Jesus in this text shows us several
things. I'm not going to belabor them,
but he shows us how there's a security
in knowing your place in God. I mean, he
said he knew he'd come from God, was
going to God. He didn't have a doubt
about that. There was a surrender and
losing himself and God. He was okay with
giving himself up. He knew what was
coming. there was a service in
fulfilling his duty and that's true for
all of us. Those are important little
truths. I think we need to all get
those.
Uh, you know, Billy Graham was an
interesting character. But before Billy
Graham, there was another guy who was
about as popular as Billy Graham
worldwide. His name was Moody. Dwight El
Moody. Dwight El Moody uh had preacher
conferences up in Northfield,
Massachusetts. And it got where at his
school people would come all over the
world to study there for a little while
or go to the conference, you know, like
a lecturesship. And at one of the
lecture ships um there's first time
there had been anybody from Europe come
and quite a few preachers came from
Europe. And in Europe it was the custom
that uh at such a conferences that they
would leave their shoes of the day
outside the room and someone would come
and serve them and polish their shoes
for the next day. Well, that wasn't the
case in America. And so he was walking
the halls and he realized there were
shoes outside all these doors. He's
like, "Uh-oh, they're expecting their
shoes to be polished for tomorrow, so
they'll look spiffy in the meeting." So
what he did is he mentioned it to a
couple of students and nobody did
anything. So he went around, gathered
them all up in the middle of the night,
went back to his room, and started
polishing. one of his friends, only
reason we know this story is one of his
friends came by, knocked on his door and
he was in there polishing shoes and he
went in, helped him, you know, helped
him do it. But so this person that was
probably the most popular preacher in
the world at that time, that may be
strange to you and me because you might
not know who I'm talking about, but he
was very, very, very popular. But he
wasn't so popular that he wouldn't do a
menial task and shine somebody's shoes.
I think there's a lesson in that.
Despite fame or praise, you got to be
willing to be humble. Sometimes those
seeking positions are seeking more the
position. You know this in business,
than they are seeking the work itself.
And it can be true even among elders. I
hope that's never true here, but it can
be. Sometimes people seek sovereignty.
They want to be the boss. They want to
sit in Moses' seat, tell everybody what
to do. Sometimes people want to seek
significance. They think now, well, I'll
have this title and everybody will have
to, you know, treat me with a little
more respect.
It's not about that. To be called rabbi,
the word rabbi, by the way, for the Jews
meant primarily great one.
No, that's not what it's about. And some
can chase the title of supremacy. They
want to be the greatest of all there.
I've seen men that wanted to be the head
elder
and there's no such thing.
There are also threats that come to an
eldership and you need to be aware of
especially you new guys. I know this is
new shoes for you today, but you always
need to be aware there are threats that
will come from without this
congregation. People that aren't here
yet that'll one day want to be members
here and there will be a problem and you
need to be aware of it. It will happen.
I'm not kidding. I'm not making that up.
It happens. And someone will come from
without. Wolves will come in among you.
And then of course there is that threat
from within. Now that's that it would
include me. Obviously I'm one of the
biggest threats to this church. That's
the truth because I'm up here talking
all the time. So I represent the biggest
threat to this church. And so you need
to watch me and whoever else stands in
this pullpit or any of the Bible
classes. That's a part of the job. But
you also have to watch each other. You
have to watch other elders. That's a
part of the job. And that may sound
wrong, but it is the case because from
among your own selves, men can arise
speaking perverse things. It does
happen. One of the biggest things that
is in the Old Testament about this whole
subject, and it's in Ezekiel 34, is a
warning to have the role but not have
the towel, to not do the work. That's
the biggest threat. And it's bigger than
everything I've mentioned up until now.
And that's the reason I'm talking about
this because it actually is a threat to
not do what you've been assigned to do.
But it's true for us all, isn't it?
Isn't that true for us all? Spend more
time at the uh coffee place at work than
in work. That can happen for all of us.
So, we need to be aware of that. I want
to I'm not going to be long here, but I
just want to share with you three little
thoughts, okay, about that topic. Okay,
here we go.
And I want to change this a little bit.
I'll give it to you. So shepherds should
chase the towel of smallalness
from John the baptizer.
John said he must increase. That is
talking about Jesus. He must increase
but I must decrease. What a great saying
that is. And Paul ca Paul John came to
prepare the way for Jesus to make his
path straight to make it where people
would actually listen to him. Had that
not happened Jesus could have come and
struck the world with a curse. At least
that's what Malachi mentioned. So it is
possible that things wouldn't have gone
the way they did had John not. It was
essential what John did. But John had to
fade away. Now we're all called to be
Christian soldiers. And as soldiers,
there's an old saying that soldiers
never die. They just
fade away. Well, listen to me. Christian
soldier,
whoever you are, and I'm talking to
everybody now, but especially the guys
coming in.
Christian soldiers never die. But they
need to learn to fade away. What I'm
suggesting to you is that until you make
it your goal to become smaller, not
bigger.
Your goal is to be smaller. That Jesus
would come bigger and you become
smaller. Jesus is bigger, I become
smaller. Jesus becomes bigger, I become
smaller. And seek to be smaller
every day from here on out. The second
lesson you see is that shepherds should
chase the towel of Spocknard. I love the
story of Mary in John 12:3, which is
just before the text we read. It says,
"Then Mary took a pound of very costly
oil of spikenard, anointed the feet of
Jesus, wiped his feet with her hair, and
the house was filled with the fragrance
of the oil." Now, Mary's brother had
just been raised from the dead. He'd
been a sick man, and he finally passed
away. And to honor Jesus and to show
great gratitude,
she took this expensive material, this
perfume, and put it on Jesus and emptied
it. It fill the fragrance filled the
house. I want to suggest to you that
there needs to be within all of us a
spirit of gratitude.
If you get to the point in in church in
church life as a Christian where you are
almost acting like people owe something
to you,
that's when we begin to go sour and we
begin to smell bad. But as long as we
seek to fill the area with a lovely
fragrance that when we walk out of the
room, the atmosphere is better than when
we walked in the room.
Amen. That's the goal to leave a scent
of spotnard behind us. If we are really
be going going to take up the towel when
we leave the room there is a fragrance
of service left behind. So not only do
we need to be seeking smallalness and we
need to seek to fade into obscurity so
that Christ would be all in all. We need
to seek to leave a sweet fragrance
behind like perfume. That's the most
expensive thing out there because we
left that sweet fragrance behind.
Finally,
and then I'll be done. Well, kind of.
Shepherds should chase the towel of
service. But here, I want you to think
about the type service. It's a faithful
service. In John 13:14, just there. If I
then, your Lord and Teacher,
have washed your feet, you also ought to
wash one another's feet. I want to draw
your attention to the faithfulness of
his service right here. It's not what he
did. I know everybody looks at that and
it's he's washing dirty feet. That's
amazing. Well, he had dirty feet, too,
you know. I mean, he's just he was a
human, too. But that we look at that.
That's the great thing. No, no. What I
want you to see is
he's fixing to be having even dirtier
feet. Blood's going to be all over his
feet. He knows this. His back's going to
be covered in blood. His head is going
to be covered in blood. His hands will
have blood all over them. He's going to
be in terrible pain. He knows this is
coming. And in the midst of knowing this
terrible thing is about to hit him in
the midst of life being the exact
opposite of what he would want. Listen
to me man. In the midst of your world
going out in the midst of everything
that you want the bottom falling out of
your world. That's when you're called to
be faithful. That's when you're called
to wash feet. That's the hard point of
really being faithful is when nothing is
going your way. When everything's upside
down and backwards and you still walk
faithfully on and do the humble service
there,
that's
the wonderful thing of service. Now, I
don't I don't know if that meant a lot
to you. I'm basically through here. I
want to tell you a story and then I'm
absolutely through. And that is we need
to seek smallalness that is fading into
obscurity. We need to seek spiknard
service leaving a fragrant service
behind us. We need to seek service that
is a faithful service even when
everything's going wrong. We will serve.
Show up and help others.
That's what I'm calling you to. But
I want to talk to you about a
pediatrician named David Corer.
He told a story about a dying girl
that tried to honor the Lord. So one
Sunday his wife, he's a pediatrician,
his wife taught Sunday school
and said, "My wife had prepared a lesson
on being useful." That was the class
what it was about. She taught the
children that everyone can be useful. No
matter who you are, you can serve and
you can be useful.
and serving God was important and that's
what we should do and we should do
things that honor God. That was our
whole class. The kids seemed to soak it
up. They sat there just drawing it all
in, but they were very quiet and they
didn't say anything for a while.
Finally, Sarah, little girl in her
class, spoke up and Sarah said this,
"Teacher,
what can I do?
I don't know how to do many useful
things at all."
The teacher, his wife, the
pediatrician's wife, wasn't expecting
that response.
And so, she kind of looked around the
room trying to figure out how to answer
that. and she spied a vase sitting on
the window sill and it was empty.
Well, he said, "Sarah, you can bring in
a flower and put it in the vase and that
would be a useful thing to do."
And Sarah kind of frowned and said, "But
that's not important."
And then she came back, "It is if you're
helping someone."
Now, believe it or not, the next Sunday,
Sarah brought a daisy
and put it in the vase.
And then the next Sunday, she took that
one out and put a new daisy in the vase.
and then the next Sunday.
And then the next Sunday and then the
next Sunday and then the next Sunday and
then the next Sunday and then the next
Sunday and then the next Sunday.
Finally, the teacher pediatrician's wife
spoke to the preacher about it. Have you
heard about Sarah? What she's doing?
So he brought the vase and put it up in
front of everybody on the stand and
preached a sermon about faithful
service.
Everybody loved it. It was a great
story.
But then the pediatrician that's telling
this story said he got a call from
Sarah's family since she's not feeling
very well. She's kind of losing her
interest. She's still she's still going
to church. She's still putting the daisy
in, but she's not feeling good. She's
got no energy and don't know what's
wrong. So, they went through a battery
of tests. You know, these exams y'all
been, some of y'all been through these
things. They're horrendous. And she went
through all of these kinds of tests.
Turned her upside down and backwards to
find out what's wrong. And finally, he
sat there in his office looking at the
results. And it was leukemia.
And he had to go. And this back in the
day, it meant there was nothing. they
could do back in the day. Y'all remember
that? And he went to the family, one of
the worst trips he said of his life. And
Sarah and told them what she had, she
has leukemia. And what's worse, there's
because of her type, blood type,
everything. Uh there's almost nothing we
can do at all.
Sarah kept bringing the daisy
every Sunday to the class. Every Sunday
she brought that daisy. Then she got
where she was too weak and she couldn't
come anymore.
About four weeks later, he got a call
from the family saying, "It looks bad.
Could you come over?" So he ran
over to her house, examined her, told
him, "It's close.
Y'all need to stay around her. Spend as
much time with her as you can."
Another week or two passed
and it looked like she's going to go.
And then one Sunday morning, he said, "I
was sitting there just feeling terrible.
All I could think about is Sarah and
nothing meant anything to me. I'm I'm
singing songs and they meant nothing to
me because all I could think about Sarah
that I couldn't do anything for she
couldn't be there. It was horrible.
Preaching didn't mean anything. Y'all
been there.
And then all of a sudden he noticed the
preacher staring at the back
and everybody started turning around
and it was little Sarah wrapped in a
blanket.
parents carrying her
coming in and and then she put him down
and she didn't come just in and sitting
at the back. She came all the way down
to the front where he still had the vase
and put a flower in the vase
and put a little note beside it.
She died that week.
The church was devastated.
At the funeral, the pediatrician was at
the funeral, asked to say a few things,
and then after the funeral was over, the
preacher came up to the pediatrician
said, "Dave,
I've got something you ought to see."
Pulled out the note that nobody had read
and handed it to him.
Said, "You better keep this. It may help
you in your line of work.
In pink crayon,
Sarah had written, "Dear God,
this vase has been the biggest honor of
my life."
Sarah
pediatrician said, "That vase has helped
me understand life is an opportunity to
serve God by serving people.
And as Sarah had put it, it's the
biggest honor of my life.
So never underestimate small service.
Never underestimate leaving a little bit
of a spot nerd in the room. Never
underestimate service that's just
faithful. Even when you don't feel like
doing it, you're fading away. Accept it
and live it.
Leave a fragrant smell.
and faithfully serve when you don't want
to. If you're here today and you haven't
given your life to the Lord, we want to
give you that opportunity for you to
repent of your sins, confess the name of
Christ, and be baptized. It's an
interesting day to do that. We will
serve you though. We will serve you in
the middle of this day. We will serve
you with that. Nothing will hinder us
from seeing you be baptized if that is
your desire. I promise you, we will do
that. But we are here today. We've got
some interesting things fixed to happen
and you should be blessed just to have
the opport and know you're blessed just
to have the opportunity to serve by
watching.
If you need to come though, come while
we stand, while we sing.
It is our duty to remind you men who are
being ordained as elders and everyone
else present today that what we do is
done in the presence of God who gives
life to all.
In the presence of Jesus Christ who will
judge the living and the dead.
In the presence of the Holy Spirit who
makes intercession for all who have
obeyed the gospel and remained faithful.
in the presence of his angels who serve
and glorify him. In the presence of
witnesses who are the faithful and godly
brothers and sisters who make up the
Creek Side Church of Christ.
The importance of the position you are
about to take on is shown in the words
of President James A. Garfield Garfield
who resigned as an elder in the church
of Christ to become president of the
United States. His statement on that
occasion was, "I resigned the highest
office in the land to become president
of the United States.
You will now be the main line of defense
for this congregation in the war with
Satan and all his forces. Do not be
found lacking as those mentioned in
Ezekiel 22:30.
I searched for a man among them who
would build up a wall and stand in the
gap for before me for the land so that I
would not destroy it. But I found no
one.
Stand firm in the gap during the battles
you will face for with Satan and will he
will certainly try to overcome you.
Protect and feed this flock with the
word of God and keep it pure in the
sight of the Lord.
We, the current elders, solemnly charge
you to be on guard for yourselves and
all the flock of which the Holy Spirit
has made you an overseer, to shepherd
the church which Jesus purchased with
his own blood, to hold fast the faithful
word of God, to exhort the flock with
sound doctrine, to refute those who
contradict the truth, to watch over the
souls of this congregation as one who
will give an account to God.
To exercise oversight over the flock, to
take on this office voluntarily without
feeling forced to do so, to serve the
church humbly without acting as a lord
over the flock, to be an example to the
flock of what a Christian should be. and
to fulfill this role faithfully, knowing
when the chief shepherd shall appear,
you will receive an unfading crown of
glory. Are you willing to accept these
charges?
Okay, if y'all would get your towels,
John 13:3-7 reads, "Jesus, knowing that
the Father had given all things into his
hands, and that he had come forth from
God and was going back to God, got up
from supper and laid aside his garments,
and taking a towel, he girded himself.
Then he poured water in the basin and
began to wash the disciples feet and
wiped them with a towel which was with
which he was girded. So he came to Simon
Peter and he said to him, "Lord, do you
wash my feet?" Jesus answered him and
said, "What I do, you do not realize
now, but you will understand hereafter."
Luke 22:24-27.
There arose also a dispute among them
about which one of them was regarded as
the greatest. And he said to him, "The
kings of the Gentiles lorded over them,
and those who have authority over them
are called benefactors. But this is not
the way with you. But the one who is
greatest among you must become like the
youngest, and the leader like the
servant. For who is greater, the one who
reclines at the table or the one who
serves? It is not the one. Is it not the
one who recines at the table? But I am
among you as the one who serves.
We present this towel to you as a
reminder of Jesus' example of being a
servant to those he led and call upon
you to emulate his example. To the
members of this congregation, we exhort
you with the words of Hebrews 13:17.
Obey your leaders and submit to them,
for they keep watch over your souls as
one who will give an account. Let them
do this with joy and not with grief, for
this would be unprofitable for you.
At this time, we'd like the wives of the
incoming elders to come up and stand
with them. You might need to give a
little space there.
In this day and age, it seems that the
role of a woman seems downgraded or
misinterpreted or whatever. Let me
assure you the role of these wives is
critical to these men carrying out their
duties.
Their load is going to be heavy and they
need the support of their wives. They
are a part of this eldership.
If you would, let's bow in prayer.
After much prayerful consideration and
study of the qualifications that you
have given in your word and prayers for
your guidance and intercession,
we entrust these qualified men to the
task of leading this congregation to
grow spiritually and physically.
We ask God that you give them courage,
patience,
wisdom,
compassion,
perseverance, and the heart of a
servant. Help them to seek out what
needs to be done and do it with a
willing spirit. Comfort them when the
burdens of protecting the flock weigh
heavy and sleep is elusive. Let them
find joy and purpose in doing this
critical work for you. We ask that you
bless them and their families and help
to us to grant them double honor
submitting to their leadership that
their task may be fulfilling and joyful.
And as we are about to enjoy fellowship
with one another, we ask that you bless
this food that has been prepared and
help us to enjoy one another's company
in Jesus' name. Amen.
