According
to Ezekiel 34 and John 10:12 and 13, uh,
not all shepherds are responsible. I
mean, that's you probably knew that, but
you know, the shepherd in the Bible had
a hund sheep and one went missing, uh,
went astray and he searched until he
found it. But an irresponsible shepherd
might
lose one and just round up. Looks about
like a hundred to me. So, we need people
to be a little more responsible than
that to actually know when there's one
missing. That's important. You know,
long before Christian elders,
elders or elder was an honored title.
long before the church in the New
Testament, long before that. In fact,
long before we really uh understand a
lot about the Jewish elders, what we do
know is in secular history, there's a
background of elders in communities. for
as far back as we know about history.
Egypt for example, there were leaders in
Egyptian history that were known as
elders in their communities and uh in
public affairs and in town councils and
they were called elders. Elders
administered justice in those old
ancient situations. Uh even let's say a
woman suffered an assault, the elders
would step forward and would protect
her. Elders of the community uh would
often collect corn and various things as
a tribute if a governor ca of the area
came to visit. Elders were connected to
various issues. Issues of public
effects, of leasing farmland, of
gathering taxes as far back as we know
anything about history. Elders were the
only members of the councils in society
like Asia Minor. Elders were the priests
and the of uh pagan communities and
administered discipline to the people
there. The elder priest is often what
they were called in some of the temples
in a case of uh a priest uh charged in
one case of Greek history uh allowing
his hair to grow too long and wearing
woolen garments and they felt like he
was being too effeminite and so they
kicked him out. So I mean literally
there's a lot of history on this more
than you might realize in secular
culture. So when you hear the word
elder, it's not just religious, it's old
and it's in secular culture and uh not
just they're old, but it's old. And then
then there's the eldership of the Jewish
community and that's obviously very old.
We know about that. Most of us probably
have studied things. Elders were set
apart by God uh to help Moses. The first
we read actually in the Old Testament
about Jewish elders is in numbers 11.
Elders were the friends of the prophets
according to 2 Kings chapter 6. Elders
were advisors of the kings in first
kings 20 and first kings 21. And elders
administered in the affairs of the
nation according to Ezra chapter 10.
Elders met at the gate of the villages.
And there's several recordings of that,
but a first one is probably Deuteronomy
25. Elders did not preach generally, but
they administered to the synagogue and
made sure it was run appropriately. Joel
chapter 1. And the elders form a large
section of the Sanhedrin. So while it
wasn't necessarily the Sanhedrin, it
formed a section of the Sanhedrin. So
there was never a time when Judaism
operated without elders. as far as we
can see. So the idea that elders is a
strange concept in our world is really
silly because it goes all the way back
to the earliest known history of mankind
that elders were important in all of our
lives. So our text is one of the primary
texts on this whole subject of pastors,
shepherds, bishops, overseers which
refers to the same office. And so we're
not going to go through everything we've
studied over that again. We will be
talking about some things maybe you've
never heard of before as we go along
just because you haven't studied the
subject. Today we want to look at though
these four qualities. The first of which
you see up on the screen already and
that is that shephering elders model
requires men be qualified to lead by
shephering. What's the model we talking
about here? Talking about Peter himself.
Peter is the model in this text. He says
in 1 Peter 5:1, "The elders who are
among you, I exhort, I who am a fellow
elder." So he's our model in this text,
"And a witness of the sufferings of
Christ and also a partaker of the glory
that will be revealed." And then verse
two, shepherd the flock of God which is
among you. So a shephering model tells
us all that a shepherd or an elder is to
be a model and but it's more to do with
something else and that is to be a
shepherd himself. But what is a
shepherd? What's a shepherd to do? So
we're we're to have shephering elders.
What are they to do? I want to give you
just three real quick things. And one is
it has to tend the flock. But to tend a
flock, you got to be present. You got to
be among them. it it's essential that
you know what their needs are. And if
you're not around them, you can't know.
You got to know their injuries. You got
to know uh what when they need to be
shared. We talked about that a few weeks
ago. You got to stay with them. And then
you got to keep them together. Matthew 9
and verse 36, Jesus makes this comment
when he sees the crowd kind of spreading
out. He says they look like uh she sheep
without a shepherd because they began to
scatter. So a shepherd tries to keep the
sheep together, tries to keep the
congregation together. Feeding is the
second thing that they're known to do.
They have to be present to do that. They
have to be among them, know when they
need to eat, have to know where the
fresh field is that they could take them
to. They have to be aware of where
there's good food. They have to even
protect them from some plants that
aren't good for the sheep. They should
stay away from them. They got to know
where the water is. In Palestine, one of
the things that you got to know is uh a
lot of the water is present when you
don't see it's present. If you looked
out on the hills, you'd think, "Well,
where's the water? Jordan River is over
there. Where's everything else?" But
because it's so limestone, it's got so
many pockets, whole pockets. There's
water everywhere. You just don't see it
when you look at the land. It's in
little pockets of rain pockets. And so,
they know where those are and where the
most of them are. But Isaiah 40 and:1,
you have to feed them like a shepherd,
which means just has to be aware of what
they need and when they need it. And
then guarding, that's obviously a
position of a shepherd. One of the main
things is once upon a time when we
didn't kill all the lions off and we
didn't kill all the wolves off. There
used to be lions and wolves and bears
everywhere. There's still bears in the
state of Florida. Still cougars in the
state of Florida. still some coyotes in
the state of Florida, but but once upon
a time there used to be a lot more of
that kind of thing all over the world.
And so they had to watch for predator
animals all the time. But that was the
only animal they had to watch for. The
truth is is that stealing sheep is not a
new idea. If you've read the book of
Job, you know that's true. That stealing
property is not new. And so as a result,
people's sheep was stolen quite
frequently. Acts 20:29, savage wolves
though can enter in not sparing the
flock. So we know that they had to be
guarding. So from a shephering person
like Peter, we learn that a shephering
elders model, what he knew he had to do
requires that anybody that's going to be
qualified to be an elder has to be able
to do these three things. He has to be
able to tend the flock. Has to be able
to feed the flock. Has to be able to
guard the flock. So look for men like
that when you're nominating. Second
little lesson that we need to get is the
shephering elders ministry that Peter
refers to requires that men be qualified
to be overseeing.
Now 1 Peter 5:2 says, "Shephering the
flock of God which is among you." Again,
he had to be among them. Serving as
overseers.
To oversee, a man must be able to do
about three things. And I've showed them
to you up there. They're very specific
all through scripture. Supervising is a
critical ability. Being present. Again,
you can't supervise. There used to be
MBWA, management by walking around. Some
of y'all may remember that from the 80s.
uh MBWA, you can't manage by not being
around people. You have to be around the
people that you're going to manage. You
have to be in and among them. So, you
have to be present among them. You have
to attend. You have to visit. You have
to muster them when you need to. You
need to to appoint men to do whatever
needs to be done. And that's a part of a
supervisor's job. That's not a part of
all of us. We couldn't possibly do that.
We're going to appoint every little
thing that needs to be done. Who's going
to be the Sunday school teacher in
exclass next Sunday? we're going to hold
a congregational meeting to decide that.
That'd be silly. But we do need somebody
to decide it. Somebody's got to
supervise that. And so even in the
Septuagent Greek, the word here came to
mean taskmaster.
Well, you probably didn't like that
term, did you? Taskmaster of an
overseer. They were in the public works
and public building schemes. In 2
Chronicles 34, it uses this term, an
overseer of all the work that is done.
So if you're if and a man's going to be
an overseer in the church, you got to
trust him with all the work that needs
to be done as a church because that's
really what he's got to do. But not only
that supervising, but he needs to be
watching. And to watch, you have to be
present. You have to be around the the
animals that you're watching. You have
to watch after you look after them. You
have to see what's going on. and what
their needs really are. Ezekiel 3:17
says, "I've made you a watchman
to the house of Israel. Therefore, give
them warning from me." Watchman gives
warning. What does that mean? You see
the wild animal coming. You see the
intruder coming. That's what you're
there for. But Luke 2 and verse 8 talks
about a little different. And it says
they gave watch over their flock by
night. So whether you know this or not,
if you're going to be a watchman, you're
probably going to have to work hours you
don't care for. If you're going to be an
elder, you're probably going to have to
work hours you don't care for to watch
for the flock. But more than that,
accounting, being present among them.
Because if you're accounting them or
counting them, you have to be
accountable for them. William Barkley
explains this. He says, "There is an
oversight responsibility and an
accountability responsibility to a
higher authority." You see, the elders
are not the highest authority in the
church.
The Lord God is the highest authority in
the church. And so what I'm suggesting
is is Hebrews 13:17 says that you need
to help them because they're the ones
who must give an account. So somebody's
got to give an account of what's going
on here.
You'll have an account that you have to
give, but I have an account. I have to
give, but the elders have an account
they have to give. We don't get out of
that. So from shephering Peter, we learn
that a shephering elers's ministry
requires that he be capable of
overseeing,
which is supervising, watching, and
being accountable.
Number three, shephering elders motives
require men be qualified to lead by
volunteering. Now, this is really an
important one because you should already
see this in them before you nominate
somebody.
It says in verse two, "Shepherd the
flock of God which is among you, seeing
uh serving as overseers, not by
compulsion, but willingly,
not for dishonest gain, but eagerly."
So, a shephering's
motive
must already be present. You know, it
says he desires a good work, but there
ought to already be a desire, not to be
a shepherd as much as the work. Because
if he desires to be a shepherd, he
desires a good work. So, he's already
volunteering.
If you're a person that has to be asked
to do something, you're not ready to be
an elder.
You have to be one who's willing to do
now and wanting to do now whatever needs
to be done now. If you always have to be
asked to do, you're not really the kind
of person we need in that position. A
volunteer, a man must work for the
church. And here's three quick reasons.
desiring being present among the sheep
desiring to be among the sheep but
desiring to work on behalf of the sheep
and that's the reason the statement is
in 1 Timothy 3 and verse one a man
desires the position he desires a good
work he's already there he's already
wanting to do it he's willing being
present among the sheep as one who is
willing eagerly to and passionately I
would say to help in whatever way you
can what needs to be done instead of
waiting to for somebody to put your
finger on it. You see, I don't know,
let's say the trash cans are over
running. I know somebody that doesn't
wait on that. I won't name him right
here. I don't want to embarrass him
because you know and I know who that is.
Amen. We all know who that is. And it's
not every one of you. I promise you, but
I see him so often doing that. or when
the floor there's been a spill, not
waiting on somebody to come and take
care of it, they do it. If there needs
to be some more food brought, they just
bring it. Whatever needs to be done,
they're already doing it. There's
there's a call for help. I don't know,
let's say the military, we're going to
send them a package. They're already
doing as soon as they find out they're
the ones that want to do that kind of
thing. If we're going to do a benevolent
package out, they want to volunteer. let
me help with that. I'll at least give
you some money or I'll let me go buy
some stuff. That's the type person they
are. They're volunteering to do this
kind of thing. They're willing. Nehemiah
4 and:6 says the people had a mind to
work. These people that are we're going
to suggest already have a mind to work.
Nobody goes go to them and say, "Oh, you
need to really get in there and do
something." No, that's what other people
do. These people actually have a mind to
work. volunteering, being present among
the sheep, volunteering to do the hard
job that nobody wants to do, but they're
willing to do because it'll benefit the
sheep. Ezra 7 in Psalm 110 talks about
how that we're to be, all you Tennessee
fans love this, we all are supposed to
be volunteers. Okay? So, literally,
that's what we're supposed to do.
Volunteer, but especially these
individuals. So from shephering Peter,
we learn that the shephering elders
motives
requires him that he is already
volunteering for whatever needs to be
done. Number
shephering elders might where does he
get his power? Requires men be qualified
to lead by demonstrating. Some people
think that you get into this position
and you have authority.
All
right, let's look at what he says. Verse
three. Nor is being lords
over those entrusted to you, but being
examples to the flock. A shepherd's
might does not rest in his authority or
his power,
but in his
literal example.
So to demonstrate
what we should be because we ought to be
able to look at them and say, "Well,
that's kind of my target." The way he's
living, a man must be actively doing
these three things that I've got up
there. I'm sure there's more, but this
will serve as an example. Serving, not
as being lords, but serving. Not
forcing, but serving. Ezekiel 34:4 talks
about using force. That's a false
shepherd, but being a an example,
demonstrating by their serving what we
should do. We have an example of that.
John chapter 13:15, when Jesus got up,
girded himself, took a towel and a dish,
and began to wash the disciples feet.
Why? Because if you're going to eat,
you're going to be at the Passover, your
feet needed to be washed. Nobody had
done it. He did it. What needed to be
done?
I'll do it. He did it. Serving
and behaving. You see, if you're going
to be an example, you got to have a be
an example of a good behavior.
A good behavior. Not cruel. Not a cruel
person. Ezekiel 34:4. Not to be cruel,
but being examples demonstrating by
behaving like a Christian in every
circumstance. We have several
suggestions. Philippians 3:15 talks
about how we ought to be people of
maturity. 1 Timothy 4:12 talks about our
conduct needs to be observed as an
example. Titus 2 talks about how that we
ought to be an example of good works. So
there ought to be a many things that
somebody could point to you if you're
going to be an elder here and say that's
an example and then working not as being
lord's exercising authority but being
example of work. Uh Matthew 20 26 talks
about
it should not be so among you that we
exercise authority.
It should never be true in a church that
you feel like you're being bossed
around.
It shouldn't feel that way. You should
never come out of an elers's meeting and
feel like, "Well, I just got told."
That shouldn't be the way it is.
It should be simply by an example
demonstrating what we ought to be by
working hard. In 2 Thessalonians chapter
3 89 talks about how toiling Paul says
toiling night and day to make ourselves
an example
outworking everybody else.
That's the idea. So from shephering
Peter, we learn that the shephering
elder, his might
requires that he be qualified by
demonstrating to the rest of us how we
really ought to be. So this is a summary
of the little things we've just noticed.
This is what you should look for. Uh we
should look for shephering. We should
look for a man who can shepherd, who can
oversee, who will volunteer already, and
who demonstrates the way a Christian
should be. We need to be praying about
this. Um, we're going to be nominating
next Sunday. We need to be in prayer.
We need And then we need to affirm the
men that are made of the right stuff for
us.
Uh,
let's finish our study by seeing this.
Final verse, verse four, where I didn't
talk about that. Verse four says, "And
when the chief shepherd appears, you
will receive the crown of glory that
does not fade away." Are you hearing me,
elders?
Maybe you don't feel like you've been
honored. Maybe you don't think you're
respected. And maybe you think that we
don't care. Well, let me tell you, it
doesn't matter what we think.
The chief shepherd will appear one day
and you will receive the crown of glory
that doesn't fade away for what you've
done. He's been paying attention. He
notices every glass of cold water.
You will be blessed.
Keith Miller, who died back in 2012,
he's an author and a speaker,
a theologian.
He writes, "Years ago, when our
daughters were very young,
we dropped them off at our church
children's chapel service.
And one day, just as I was about to open
the door to the small chapel,
the minister over that chapel service
came running up. He said he had an
emergency and he asked if I'd speak to
the children uh at their story time. and
he said that the subject this week was
the 23rd Psalm.
And just as I was about to get up a few
minutes later and give that speech from
the back row, this young minister burst
into the room
and signaled me that he would be able to
do the story time. And so after all, you
can sit down. So he told this these
children
about sheep
from Psalm 23. This is what he said.
Sheep aren't very smart.
They need lots of guidance.
And the shepherd's job is to stay close
to the sheep. Protect sheep from wild
animals. Keep them from wandering off
and doing dumb things
because they could get hurt or they
could even get killed.
Then he pointed to the little children
in the room
and he said, "You're all the sheep
and you need lots of guides."
Then he did this,
held his hands out,
and he says, "If you're the sheep,
then who is the shepherd?"
And one of the little boys said, "Jesus,
Jesus is the shepherd." Obviously
disappointing the young minister.
Jesus is the shepherd.
Finally, the caught the young minister
by surprise who was gaining all the
glory for the moment. And he said,
"Well, well then who am I?"
And little boy frowned and he said, "Uh,
I don't know, the sheep dog.
And Keith Miller wrote, "I remember
looking on that young minister's face,
and I think about that every time I
start thinking that I'm the shepherd in
charge of some of God's sheep.
There's only one shepherd
and there's only one flock, but there's
only one shepherd over that flock." He
said, "And I'm not him."
Y'all remember the movie Rudy?
Remember back in 1993? Some of that's
before some of you were born, I realize,
but back in 1993, the main actor in that
movie was Sean Patrick Austin. You've
seen him in quite a few things, Lord of
the Rings, other things,
but he was portraying Daniel Rutkerf who
was nicknamed Rudy. And Rudy was a
little guy wasn't what didn't weigh
enough to play football, little less to
play at Notre Dame. And he wanted to
play at Notre Dame so bad. And it's the
story of how he was a practice guy, a
practice dummy for the four years he was
at Notre Dame. barely made it into Notre
Dame. It wasn't really good enough.
Anyway, he went through all of that. One
of the days he was especially depressed.
He wasn't getting to play. Looked like
he's going to lose even the position he
had to play. He went into the church and
he's praying. He's asking the Lord, you
know, let me let me play. Let me play. I
just want to play. Let me just let me
just play one time. Please let me play.
I just want to get on the field one
time. And and he's very frustrated. The
preacher came over to him and he says,
"Uh, what's going on?" He says, "You
know, what is it I mean that that God
hasn't given me what I've asked for?
I've tried. I've been I've behaved. I'
I've done all I know to do. Why isn't
God giving me what I asked for?" And
this is what the preacher says. "Son, in
35 years of religious study, I've come
up with just two hard, incontrovertible
facts.
There is a God
and I ain't him.
And believe it or not, shepherds,
you're not the shepherd.
And if you're a potential shepherd,
you're not the shepherd.
But you make a good sheep dog.
And I'm happy to be a sheep dog, aren't
you?
I'm happy to help the shepherd
as best I can under you're a potential
undersheperd if you're out there. Focus
on the qualities God expects of you.
Let's all do that. If you really listen
to this, this kind of speaks to all of
us, doesn't it? I mean, shouldn't we all
be kind of tending the sheep like a
shepherd? Shouldn't we all be overseeing
something, trying to make sure it gets
done? Shouldn't we all be volunteering
for some stuff? Shouldn't we all be a
demonstration of what it's like to
really be a Christian? Shouldn't that be
a description of every single one of us?
Is that just for those guys and the rest
of us get off?
I remember I'm going to tell you one
last story and this isn't even part of
the lesson. You get this and it doesn't
cost extra. So, I remember a few years
ago we had a guy that I was trying to
convince to become an elder here. He no,
no, no. He don't want to be an elder.
And I said to him, "Well, why not?" And
he said, "Well, all the responsibility.
I don't want the responsibility."
This is what I told him. By the way, he
became an elder here.
I told him, "Okay, if you're qualified
and you don't take it,
do you think you're less accountable
to God?
Do you really believe that?
You think God won't hold you accountable
for the qualities you have that you
won't use?
Uh-uh. You're accountable just like I am
and like all of us for what we're
capable of doing. If you're here today
and you have never given your life to
the Lord Jesus and you don't step
forward in this invitation, do you think
you're not accountable because we
weren't watching,
because we didn't know? If there's sin
in your life that you're not dealing
with right now and you need our prayers,
do you think by not coming forward,
you're not accountable?
