Now kids, I have one joke for you. So
it's it's great. So I'll leave this and
you go tell your parents because they
won't be listening right now. But why
should we be encouraged by the story of
Jonah and the big
fish? Here's the reason. The answer is
because Jonah was down in the mouth, but
he came out all
right. It's hilarious, isn't it? All
right. So I want to take you to You tell
your parents that joke. I'm sure they'll
laugh at it when you get home. Jonah is
discussed elsewhere in the scriptures.
It is discussed in 2 Kings 14 23
particularly through 25. I'll just read
verse 25. It says talking about
Jeremiah, he restored the territory of
Israel from the entrance of Hamoth to
the sea of Araba or Arabia uh depending
on how you pronounce it. According to
the word of the Lord God of Israel,
which he had spoken through his servant
Jonah, the son of Amiti the prophet who
was from Gther. The significance of that
is that was the area that had been
promised before they actually inherited
the land and he restored it again. They
had had it, they lost it, they had it,
they lost it. Jonah lived during the
reign of Jeroboam II. And that's
somewhere, depending on how you rate it,
somewhere between 793 to 753 BC and 786
to 746. It, you know, sometimes these
things are not perfectly accurate. I
have to make 21 points. So, I need y'all
to listen really fast. I'm going to walk
talk slow, but y'all listen fast. And
I'm going to walk through these. When
you find the one that really hits you,
settle down on it. Quit listening. But
the rest of them, try to listen to you
until you get the one that seems to hit
settle down on you. Because each one of
these will hit you in a different way.
And I'm not going to explain all of
them. We're going to walk through them
relatively fast. Here we go. Number one,
there is the preparation of our fleeing.
That's right. You don't want to do
evangelism either. Listen to what it
says. Now the word of the Lord came to
Jonah the son of Amiti saying, "Arise,
go to Nineveh, that great city, and cry
out against it, for their wickedness has
come up before me." But Jonah arose to
flee to Tarses from the presence of the
Lord. Jonah's home, a Gath Heber in uh
going over to Nineveh, was somewhere
between 500 and 615 miles, depending on
how you mark it. Tarses, on the other
hand, would have been 2500 miles away
from Nineveh. That's the exact opposite
direction. Here's the point I want you
to settle down on for you. There is no
place to escape our evangelistic
responsibilities. In Psalm 139 and verse
7, it says, "Where can I go to flee from
the Lord? There is no place. Your
evangelistic responsibilities are on you
from Jesus Christ. Number
two, the preparation of our boat. Ain't
it interesting? Jonah 1:3 goes down to a
port and he went down to Japa and found
a ship going to Tarses. You know, you
find what you're looking for. If you
want a way out, you will find a way out
of doing evangelism. That's the reason
so few of us actually do it. We are
always looking for a boat, a way to not
go and do it. There is however no sea to
escape our evangelism responsibilities.
You can be on a cruise for 3 weeks and
you still can't escape your
responsibilities for do evangelism.
Whenever there's an opportunity arises
there you are. Psalm 139:9 says the
uttermost part of the sea. The Lord is
still there and he's still requiring you
to be about evangelism. Number
three, the preparation of our fair.
That's right. to avoid evangelism. It's
going to cost you. And you know what?
We're willing to pay it. We're willing
to pay it. We'll pay. How much are you
willing to pay to get into Disney?
Anything but do some of the stuff that
we're required to do because we're all
about fun. Getting on a boat, going
somewhere. Jonah 1:3. So he paid the
fair and went down into it to go with
them to Tarses from the presence of the
Lord. There is however no fee to escape
our evangelism responsibilities. You can
spend all your money having fun. That
doesn't mean you're less responsible for
the people living next door to you, the
people you work with. You cannot spend
enough money and have enough fund that
you're no longer responsible. The truth
is Psalm 49:8, the redemption of one
soul is costly and you'll never be able
to pay it. It is on you whether you like
it or not. You can pay all the fairs you
want. You're still responsible. Number
next, which is going to be number next
most of the time here because I can't
keep up with the number we're at right
now. Okay, so number next, the
preparation of our sleeping. In Jonah
1:es 4 and 5, it says, "But the Lord
sent out a great wind on the sea, and
there was a mighty tempest on the sea,
so that the ship was about to be broken
up." That's a bad storm. We're going to
come to that in a minute. Verse 5. Then
the mariners were afraid. And every man
cried out to his God and threw the cargo
that was on the ship into the sea to
lighten the load. But Jonah had gone
down into the lowest part of the ship
and had laid down and was fast asleep.
You know, some folks can't be woken up
for anything. But listen to me clearly.
There is no sleep. You know, when you're
not doing the will of God, it's amazing
sometimes how all you're about is rest
and relaxation and fun and doing
nothing. But here's the truth. There is
no esleep that will help you escape our
evangelism responsibilities to the Lord
God. In Job 33 15 through 18, it talks
about that even while we slumber, he
opens our ears. That's right. The Lord
messes with you when you're sleeping.
And you know that's true what I just
said. The Lord's after you to be about
his evangelistic efforts and many other
good works he wants you to be about. But
evangelism for sure, the preparation of
our lot. Listen to this. In Jonah 1 6
and 7, it says this. So the captain came
to him and said to him, "What do you
mean, sleeper? Arise, call on your God.
Perhaps your God will consider us so
that we may not perish." So obviously
they didn't believe the same thing that
he did. Verse seven, and they said to
one another, "Come, let us cast lots
that we may know for whose cause this
trouble has come upon us." So they cast
lots and the lot fell on Jonah. Isn't
that interesting that something that's
just random could be so specific? Here's
the truth. There is no luck. There is no
luck. You can go down to the uh
nightclub. You can spend all your money
gambling all you want, but there is no
luck that'll help you escape our
evangelism responsibilities. In Proverbs
16:33, it says, "The lot is cast into
the lot, but every decision of it is
from the Lord." You think things are
random. I'm telling you straight up,
everything down the hair of your head is
not random. That lot is controlled by
God. You can't avoid what you are
responsible for. You are being prepared
for what you are supposed to be
responsible for, which is the souls. You
know, number next, the preparation of
our storms. That's right. The storms in
our life. You think they're random. You
think they come randomly. And God isn't
involved in that. But let me take you
through Jonah 1:es 8-16. Let me just
drop down for the sake of time. Give me
that much. Verse 11. Then they said to
him, "What shall we do to you that the
sea may calm for us?" Because he had
cast that lot on him. For the sea was
growing more tempestuous. Verse 12. And
he said to them, "Pick me up and throw
me into the sea. Then the sea will
become calm for you. And I know that
this great tempest is because of me."
How did he know that? Verse 13.
Nevertheless, the men rode hard to
return to the land, but they could not,
for the sea continued to grow more
tempestuous against them. Verse 15, so
they finally picked him up and threw him
into the sea, and the sea ceased from
his raging. Let me tell you something.
The storms in your life are not
random. They're not
random. The trouble, the struggles, the
things you have to struggle with,
they're not random. There's a message in
every one of them. Are you paying
attention? The Lord is preparing you.
It's always about preparation. There is
no weather to escape our event. Oh,
well, it's raining today. I guess we
won't go and see so and so. We're not
responsible now because it rained. We're
not responsible now because it's a
beautiful day and we got to go to the
beach. We're no longer responsible. Job
37 12 through13, it says this talking
about God. He causes it to come whether
for correction or for the land or for
mercy. Don't you think that God's out of
control that he can't make what needs to
happen in our lives? You need to
understand that you can't blame the
weather for your lack of evangelism.
Number next, the preparation of our
shipmates. It says in verse 16, verse
16, chapter 1, then the men feared the
Lord exceeding and offered a sacrifice
to the Lord and took vows. They became
like his best buds. I mean, they're
they're praying to the same Lord he
does. They hadn't previously, but now
they are because now they know his God's
the real God. He now his buddies. But
listen to me. There is no friend that
can help you escape evangelistic
responsibilities. Nobody in this church
can take that pressure off of you. That
isn't on your neighbor and not on you.
It's on every single one of us. This is
an individual. Every tub sits on its own
bottom. You don't get to say the
preacher's job is to reach. The elers's
job is to reach my wife, my son, my
kids. Somebody else is responsible. No,
my friend, this is on you and me. Acts
2:23. It's an interesting thing there.
It says you were uh Jesus was delivered
up by the purposes of God and you have
taken and by lawless hands have had him
crucified. Here, you can blame it on
them, but he says it was you who did it.
And here's the thing. You can't get out
of your responsibilities. You can't put
it on somebody else and say, "That's the
reason this happened." Oh, no. This is
on you and me. We're all a bunch of
sinners. And you can't say, "Well, I'm
not like them." Yes, you are. You're
just like the rest of us, and you're
just as responsible as any of the rest
of us. So, the preparation of our
shipmates doesn't help us a bit. The
people that are in the boat with us,
they're just in the boat with us. The
responsibility is still on us. Number
next, the preparation of our fish. Jonah
1 verse 17. And the Lord had prepared.
Again, back to preparation. A great fish
to swallow Jonah. I don't know what you
have to do to prepare one like that.
Stick it in the side. I don't know what
he did to prepare, but he prepared that
fish. Maybe he didn't let him eat
something that day. I don't know. But
there is no being, listen to this, there
is no being. There is no being on this
planet other than humans to that will
help you escape our evangelism
responsibilities. Why did I say that?
Genesis chapter 6 and verse 20 says all
the animals came to Noah. He didn't go
catch them. They came to him. You know
what that means? God tells the fish what
to do. God tells the birds what to do.
God tells your dog what to do. God tells
your cat maybe what to
do. Here's the deal. There's no excuse
you can give. They do what he says. Why
can't you? Your dog does. Yep. Even your
dog that we in the floor does what the
Lord wants him to do whenever the Lord
calls him to do it. That doesn't mean he
told him to do that, though. I'm just
tell you straight up. But he does
control your animal in your house. Why
aren't you under that much control? Why
aren't you doing what he asked you to
do? Number next, the preparation of our
catch. That's right. It says verse 17,
Jonah was in the belly of the fish three
days and three nights. The best way to
learn how to fish for men is to learn
that the best way is to be
caught. Yeah, that's how he learned. He
learned how to fish for men by being the
bait that got
caught. Isn't that interesting? You see,
there is no darkness because in the
belly of the fish, you don't see
nothing. Ain't nothing to see down
there. You get in the belly of a fish. I
ain't been there, but I can tell you
straight up, it's dark. Especially the
further down you go in the water, it's
dark. What's it like down there? Dark
and cold and painful. There is nothing
pleasant about this. It's dark. But
listen, there is no darkness to escape
our evangelism responsibilities. In
Psalm 139:12, it says, "Darkness shall
not hide you." You can be in the darkest
place on the planet. You can't get away
from the presence of the Lord. You can't
hide yourself in the dark. You think you
get away with something because you do
some sin in the dark, which is when most
sins are done. Some of you young people
have done some things probably lately in
the dark and you thought nobody knew.
Well, let me tell you something. There's
somebody that knew. Some of you old
people did some things in the dark and
you thought nobody knew. Let me tell
you, God knows. And let me tell you
about this. No matter how dark it is,
you're still responsible for reaching
the people around you for the cause of
Christ. Number
next, the preparation of our prayers. It
says in ver uh chapter 2 and verse one,
then Jonah prayed to the Lord his God
from the fish's belly. Well, wouldn't
you wouldn't we all? There nobody that
wouldn't pray in a foxhole a bomb
dropped right next to you. You get in a
hurricane sometimes you'll pray. I've
noticed that. And I have noticed that in
a tornado, people will pray. When things
are going upside down and backwards,
people find it. They finally it starts
coming out of them. They start praying.
But listen to me. There is no worship.
You listen to me. Good. You're in the
middle of worship now. There is no
worship that allows you now to escape
our evangelistic responsibilities.
That's right. Romans 12:1 says this. You
must present your bodies a living
sacrifice, which is your spiritual act
of worship. So if you want to claim,
well, I worship God. I that's good
enough. I don't have to win any souls.
Let me tell you something. If you're not
using this body to do what he tells you
to do, no act of worship covers that up.
And we've been called to reach the loss.
You can't make an excuse. It's on you.
Worship doesn't make it up. Oh, well, I
I prayed this morning. Well, Jonah
prayed, but he still ain't gone to
Nineveh yet. Number
next, the preparation of our vows. Oh,
we make all kinds of promises and vows.
It says in verse 9, "But I will
sacrifice to you with the voice of
thanksgiving. I will pay what I vow.
Salvation is of the Lord." Yeah. Easy to
make a lot of promises while you're in
the belly of a fish and you think you're
going to die any moment. Ain't it funny
how we'll make all kinds of deals when
we think we're about to die. We'll just
do all kinds of promising. But you
listen to me now. Just because you made
a promise doesn't mean you're keeping
your promise. Every one of you when you
became a Christian promised you would do
whatever the Lord said. He's Lord of
your life. You if he tells you to go win
a soul, you go cross the a road barefoot
that's got nothing but glass on it to do
whatever the Lord said when you first
obey the gospel. But you made promises.
Are you keeping those promises? There is
no promise that'll help you escape our
evangelism responsibilities. Well, I
promise that I'll take the kids to
Disney. That doesn't get you out of
nothing.
Ecclesiastes 5:es 4 and 5 says, "Pay
what you have vowed." That applies, by
the way, to your husband and wife,
ladies and gentlemen. You vowed to them.
You better keep that, too, cuz you get
in serious trouble about that sort of
thing. But there, this preparation is on
us all that he's teaching us. Do what
you said you're going to do. Reach out
for him. Number next, you're going to
like this point, the preparation of our
vomit.
Don't use that word much in church, do
we? It says, "And the Lord spoke to the
fish." This verse 10 of chapter 2. "And
the Lord spoke to the fish and it
vomited Jonah out onto dry land." Wonder
how he pulled that off since he's out in
the ocean. How do you do that? He did
it. So, that's the interesting thing.
But whale vomit is so disgusting.
Listen, if it was well vomit, they used
to make perfume out of it because
there's a chemical in it that makes the
smell last for days and days and days.
It's like an oil in it. So, let me tell
you something. That was disgusting. It
was bad. But listen to me. There is no
filth that helps you escape your
evangelistic response. But the Lord
can't use me because I did this wrong
and I did that wrong. I don't care what
you've done wrong. There's no filth
you've been a part of that gets you out
from underneath this. It doesn't matter
what kind of terrible sinner you've
been. You are still responsible, Lord,
to do this. This is what is on you.
Nobody can say I'm unfit to be an
evangelizer. Every one of you fit to be
an evangelizer. You say, "But but but
but I've did something terrible this
week." You still need to talk to the
people around you just the same. Isaiah
6:es 5 and 8. How do I know that's true?
Because Isaiah says, "I'm a man of
unclean lips and I dwell in the midst of
people of unclean lips and my eyes have
seen the Lord. I'm going to die. Woe is
me." He says, and he just takes a little
cold, touches his lip, and he says,
"Your iniquity is taken away. The Lord
can take it away that quick. Whatever
you did." So, if you've prayed to be
forgiven, you're as clean as anybody's
ever been right now. Quit saying you're
unfit. Number
next, the preparation of our repentance.
It says chapter 3 verse one. The word of
the Lord came to Jonah the second time
saying, "Hey, listening this time."
Verse three, Jonah rose and went to
Nineveh according to the word of the
Lord. Now, Nineveh was a city, great
city, a three-day journey in extent.
Now, here's the truth. There is no
right to escape our evangelism
responsibilities. You don't ever get a
right if you're going to repent. There
is no right. I don't have a
right. I have no
rights. I have no rights. He is the
Lord. If I
repented in 1 Corinthians chapter 9 and
verse 6, it says this. This is Paul. Woe
is to me if I do not preach the
gospel. I'm in
trouble. Do you hear that? If I don't
preach the gospel, I'm 68 now. If I
don't preach the gospel until the day I
drop, I'm in
trouble. I didn't put my hand to the
plow when I was 12 and decide, "Oh,
well, I'll do this for a few years and
then I won't do it. I may not do it
here, but I'm going to be doing
somewhere. I'm going to preach until I
drop." That's you. You hearing me?
That's not me. That's you. Get over
yourself. Every last one of us must
preach the gospel until we drop. Are you
hearing me? When you laying on that bed
and you
want and somebody standing next to you,
reach over and grab their hand. Do you
know
Jesus? Preach till you drop. Number
next, the preparation of our message.
What is our message teaching us? It says
in verse two of chapter 3, arise, go to
Nineveh, that great city, and preach the
message that I tell you. What was that
message yet? 40 days and Nineveh shall
be overthrown. At least that we know
that was a core point in his message.
And listen to this. There is no
variation. You don't get to vary the
message. You don't get to teach the one
you want. That's not the way it works.
There is no way to escape the evangelism
responsibility we have to teach it as it
says it. Galatians chapter 1 6-9. Though
we or an angel from heaven preach any
other gospel to you until other than the
gospel that we've preached to you. Let
that person be accursed. You don't get
to vary it. You have to teach what it
says. That's it. You must do that. You
don't get out of it. Number six, the
preparation of our story. I love this
point. Don't have time to get into it
deep. I'll just read the very first
verse up there. And he said, "I cried
out to the Lord because my affliction
and he answered me out of the belly of
shol." That's the grave or the fish's
belly. I He thought he was dead. I cried
and you heard my voice. Here's the
significance. If you go to Luke 11 and
notice verse 30, it says, "Jonah became
a sign to the Ninevites." Oh, that's
more true than you can imagine. Dr.
Harry Rimmer, Dr. Harry Rimemer found a
man in 1926 that was swallowed by a
fish. I know the news will tell you it's
never happened. It's never happened.
It's not only happened once, it's
happened actually several times. But
this guy was swallowed by a fish and he
was in its belly for two days. That's
right. This is a true story, not make
believe. Two days he was in a fish's
belly. I don't know what kind of fish,
but he's displayed in London and they
called him the Jonah of the 20th
century. Rimmer in interviewed him. Just
so you know, he interviewed him two
years later. So, he's a real person. He
interviewed the guy two years later. And
two years later, the man had no hair on
any part of his body. His skin had been
turned a yellowish brown. And all of
that was caused by the gastric juices of
the fish's belly. It almost killed him
two days. Imagine the reaction of the
Ninevites when they saw a man like that
walk into Nineveh smelling a fishb. Let
me tell you something. Did they notice
him? Did they see him? Maybe this is the
reason that yet 40 days and you'll be
destroyed. But listen, I was in the
fish's belly and I prayed and the Lord
answered me. You think it got their
attention? Hey, if he can hear you from
the fish's belly, even though we're
supposed to be destroyed in 40 days,
maybe he'll hear
me. Yes. There is no witness that I
could give to escape the responsibility
of evangelism other than the witness
that I've been given. The struggle
you're in is your witness about Jesus,
and you must share it. Luke 8:39, tell
them what great things God has done for
you. And if you can't think of a great
enough thing to tell somebody that God
has done for you, shame on
you. God's pulled you out of so many
fires, you could talk all night long
here in this building and you know it's
true. How many fires? Probably pulled
you out of one this
week. Number next, the preparation of
our success. It says in verse four and
verse 5, I'll just read that. And Jonah
began to enter the city on the first
day's walk. Then he cried out and said,
"Yet 40 days Nineveh shall be
overthrown." So the people of Nineveh
believed God, proclaimed a fast, put on
sackcloth from the greatest to the
least. They won't go any further than
that. Let me tell you this. There is no
history to escape our evangelism
responsibility. Listen to me. I'm going
to tell you straight up. You may think,
"Well, I've won a soul. I'm
done." I don't care if you want a
thousand. You're never done. You don't
go back and say, "Well, I did good."
That some people repented. No. Everybody
in that town had to repent. Everybody
had to be reached. Everybody. You don't
just go with the first few you get.
Colossians 4:4, Paul, I don't know how
successful Paul was. I don't know how
many people he taught and baptized, but
he said, and Colossians 4:4 after he's
in jail, I must make manifest as I ought
to speak. And I'm in prison. So, you
don't ever get out of this. You don't
ever say, "Oh, well, I'm now a mature
Christian. I've been doing this 20
years. I don't have to do it anymore."
That never happens. Number next, the
preparation of our displeasure. Lesson,
chapter 4, verse one. But it displeased
Jonah exceeded. He was mad about it.
Listen to me. There is no displeasure to
escape our evangelism responsibility. I
I don't want things to be tough on me. I
want it to be easy. I want life to be no
problem. And so therefore, I don't
really want to be awkward. in front of
people talking to people about Jesus.
That's awkward and I don't want to be a
part of that. In 2 Corinthians chapter 7
verse 5, it says outside we were
troubled and inside we had
fears. That's Paul. What are you talking
about? It's going to be
easy. What are you talking about? Nobody
wants to do this. Jonah ran from it.
Nobody wants to do what I'm preaching
about. I don't want to do it. You don't
want to do it. Quit saying, "Oh, well
that's for them." No, you're just lazy
and and scared and I get it cuz I am,
too. It's on us. We can't get away from
it. It's our responsibility. Number
next, there is the preparation of our
plant. I don't know what your plant is,
but everybody has a plant and God has
prepared a plant for you. It says in
verse 6 of chapter 4, "And the Lord God
prepared a plant." I don't know how you
prepare a plant, but he prepared a plant
and made it come up over Jonah that it
might be shade for his head to deliver
him from his misery. So Jonah was very
grateful for the plant. Folks, there's
no comfort. So, you can't just sit on
your couch and watch television or
football or baseball or whatever you're
watching and just count, I don't have
any
responsibilities. I don't have to do
anything. And get out of the
responsibility of
evangelism. It's just not possible. And
in Acts 8 and verse 8, it says there was
great joy in that city. That's where
Philip was. He'd reached so many. There
was great joy in that city. He was
reaching the all the people of Philippi.
It was
great. And then it says in verse 26,
"And the Lord said, arise and go down to
a desert."
What? I don't get out of responsibility
just because I'm comfortable. Nope. I
can't count my comfort. I got to keep
doing it. Whatever it is. Number six,
the plant can't save me. The preparation
of our worm. Oh yes, there's always a
worm to mess with our plant. In Jonah
4:7, but as morning dawn the next day,
God prepared a worm. How do you prepare
a worm? I don't know how you prepare a
worm, but he prepared a worm and it so
damaged the plant that it withered. My
shade's
gone. A worm. Listen to me, and you need
to hear this one because this is the one
you're going to complain about the most.
There is no damage that happens to us as
individuals that help of us escape from
our evangelistic responsibility. Oh, you
don't know the terrible things that have
been done to me. Yeah, you don't know
what's been done to me either. I don't
know what's been done to you. You don't
know what's been done to me. You think
we all the rest of us, other than you,
the little special you person, you've
been through horrible stuff. And the
rest of us, we just had it all fun. You
really believe that? Come on. Come on
now, church. Come
on. Right. You think you've had it hard
and the rest of us haven't had it
hard. Really? I know some people in this
church has had it so hard that when I
hear their story, I cry when I hear the
story. It's that
bad that I can't even hardly stand to
hear
it. Listen to me. You had a little worm
that caused some trouble. No damage
helps you escape. Oh, because you've had
it hard. I don't have to do evangelism
cuz I've had it hard. Hebrews 10:34, you
joyfully accepted the plundering of your
your things. You've had so Oh, I just
let them have it all. Would you be okay
with that? Number
next, the preparation of our heat.
That's right. Suddenly, it got hot for
him. It happened when the sun arose that
God prepared a
vehicle but he did it. He does a lot of
preparing in this and the sun beat on
Jonah's head and he grew faint here.
There is no discomfort to escape our
evangelism responsibilities. I'm not
comfortable right now. I've got to take
we got a leak in the house. I got to go
take care of that. I don't have to do
anything for the Lord right now. Let me
tell you 2 Corinthians chap 11 23-28.
Paul says, "Five times I received 39
stripes. Three times I was beaten with
rod. A night and a day I spent in a
deep. What's your
problem?" Number
last. I got here. Woo. Praise the Lord.
And it's only 11 minutes after which is
only 5 minutes over. So preparation of
our pity. Preparation of our pity. Look
at verse 10 of chapter 4. But the Lord
said, "You have had pity on the plant.
You felt sorry for the plant for which
you have not labored nor made it grow,
which came up in a night and perished in
night." Wonder how many times you've
watched a movie and felt sorry for
somebody, but you didn't care anything
about your neighbor.
And should I not pity Nineveh, that
great city in which are more than
120,000 and
animals? Now, he is mad, but listen to
me. There's no anger that helps you
escape our evangelist responsibility.
I'm mad. I'm not going to do that.
Nobody's going to tell me I'm mad. You
know, some folks are mad all times. Do
you know that? And they're just mad all
the time. They're never not mad. You
don't believe it? Just talk to them. And
you know, I've I've seen people walk
across. I remember one day I was with
one of you. I don't remember who it was.
We drove across. We were at a gas
station. I don't remember who one of it
was, but I remember walking. I said,
"That man is mad. I wouldn't want to
touch him. He's so mad right now walking
from there. People are mad all the time.
You don't get to use your anger as an
excuse." Let me give you an example.
Acts 15 36-41. Paul and Barnabas got
mad. They got mad at each other. That's
right. They got mad at each other.
They're brethren. They're they're
leaders. that doesn't happen. They got
mad and the contention became so great
that they parted from one another. But
they both went and did
evangelism. So I have 21 points. I can't
repeat them because we'll be here
another 20 minutes. So we'll just leave
it right there. I will tell you one last
story and then I'll land it. Okay.
There's this guy. You see his name up
there? I'm going to try to pronounce it.
I ain't got the internet to tell me how
to pronounce it. I'll probably get it
wrong. It's not really a dad. It's Udad.
That's strange with a a right. Nirari.
Okay. Adad
Morari. And Nari is supposed to get the
greatest emphasis. Any rate, he was the
guy in this story. We're pretty certain
that's who this was. He was not only the
the king of Assyria, he was the king of
Nineveh, the capital city. That's who
run that place. And he was there between
805 and 782 BC. And Jeroboam II was on
the throne. That's all true. Assyrian
dominance was waning. Assyria was not
nearly the powerhouse that it had been a
few years before this, but it it was
still there. And dad
Nari fits right into this little lump
because he's the only one, listen to
this, only one of their kings that
became
monotheistic. He's the only one. Now,
isn't that interesting? And not only did
he did that, but he used their language
on the name of a god that I don't know
if he came up with it or what, but it
was Naboo. So he called God Naboo. Why
do he why that? Because in his language
that meant the ones who were scribes and
full of wisdom and smart because it was
the Lord of
order. and he built a temple to
Naboo. Totally changed his life. Now you
say, "Well, that's not his name." Well,
you don't speak their language, so how
would you
know? He repented and the Lord saved
him. So
Jonah was a good fisher of men. Look at
what he converted. Now think about it.
But he didn't intend to. He didn't even
want to. So maybe that'll be your fate.
Maybe that'll be my fate. He didn't even
want to. But he converted sailors.
Wasn't planning on winning no sailors to
the Lord, but he converted all the
sailors. Isn't that amazing? He got the
sailors. Uh he got everybody in Nineveh.
He got the king of Nineveh. But I think
the most important person he converted
in this whole story was
Jonah. Listen to
me. You do
evangelism because you need to be saved.
You need to be
converted. If you're converted, you want
to win everybody for
Jesus. Jesus faced preparation. It was
called a cross. That's why he sits on
the
throne. If you would accept it, you have
a struggle
ahead. You must repent of your sins,
confess the name of Christ, be baptized.
Yes, absolutely. But there's a struggle
ahead. If you're going to do evangelism,
you're called to it. I'm called to it.
And everything that's happening to you
is preparation for it. But will you
receive it? Why don't you come if you
need to while we stand and while we
sing?
