Now, football season's almost over, and
I could almost weep about that because I
love football, but uh it's just the same
since it's almost over. One of the
things that you'll note, I could
probably say this now because most of
the teams I pull for are gone, but we
all want to win and we want our side to
win. We want our team to win, but more
than that, I think we ourselves want to
win. We want to win. so much that
sometimes being factually correct is not
as important as winning. Um, heard of
this story and I know y'all have all
heard it. It comes from Frank Cotch uh
in the Naval Magazine, Naval Institute
magazine of proceedings. It is not a
true story. I found out it's not a true
story, but it sounds like it could have
been, but it didn't happen. They say it
says that there was a uh ship going
along, a military ship, Navy ship said
uh saw a light ahead and they u assumed
that it was another ship said alter your
course 10° south and it came back signal
to them alter your course tren 10° north
and he signaled back alter your 10°
south I'm a captain then message came
back alter your course 10° north. I'm a
seaman third class. Didn't make the
captain very happy. And he sent back,
"Alter your course 10° south. I'm a
battleship."
It came back. Alter your course 10°
north. I am a lighthouse.
So, that didn't really happen. But it's
it is it makes the point about how we
want to be the ones that's right. And I
got to tell you, when it comes to
doctrine, we I've talked a little bit
about this lately. There are paradoxes
that are in our doctrines that make
people want to be right on one side of
the coin but not on the other. I've
noticed and we could get into all kinds
of debates into Christianity. We seem to
love it. We seem to love to put the
other person down that disagrees with
us. I think it's almost like politics
today except it's in religion. So
whether it's faith versus works and and
that whole discussion and that saves us
or predestination and free will and we
all want to be right on the right side
of that because you know if you're on
the wrong side of that you're lost and
then the divinity or the humanity of
Jesus Christ and each of these things
that we might want to discuss, we want
to win. It isn't enough that we be
right.
We want to be right enough that we're
we're able to put the other person in
their place. The same thing has happened
on this text that we're on this morning,
particularly John 3:5. And I want to
draw your attention to uh the concept
that might lead us into a better
understanding when we start reading
scripture like this and getting into
various arguments because there have
been a ton a ton of debates on John 3:5
and we want our side to win. That's
wonderful. Uh but so does everybody
else. Let's not go to uh give up the
idea of executing a text though and go
into ising a text. Ising a text is when
you read your own ideas into it, your
own biases,
your own agenda,
your own history. You impose the meaning
that you want it to teach
rather than drawing out the true meaning
from the text. That's called isogesis.
You're reading into it. Exug Jesus is
that trying to find that critical
explanation, the interpretation of that
text, aiming to draw out the meaning
that was originally intended in the text
by the Holy Spirit and the author that
we have. And you see that play out often
in some of these arguments that you see
people get into. Some just want to win
and some want to know what the text says
and it's about a love for the truth.
Second Thessalonians chapter 2 verses 10
and 11 and 12 read and with all
unrighteous deception among those who
perish because they did not receive the
love of the truth. That's a real thing.
the love of the truth that they might be
saved. And for this reason, God will
send them strong delusion that they
should believe the lie. Now, God doesn't
lie, but he can allow you to believe a
lie. Send in the rain, the sunshine,
affirming what you already know is true
because you believe it.
But he goes on that they all may be
condemned who not do not believe the
truth but had pleasure in
unrighteousness. So what I'm going to do
today is something a little different. I
want to give you uh four views of John
3:5 and then I'm going to try to nail
down the one that I believe is
absolutely true in this text. And this
will not go hand in hand if you're
Protestant or what's mainly taught among
Protestants.
So listen carefully.
Here we go. We will
essentially
look at three different ways that John
3:5 is is interpreted. And I want to
help you get to the final.
Number one, it's interpreted this way.
John 3:5 is interpreted the water of the
womb. John 3:5 again, I'll read it over
and over again. It says, "Jesus
answered,"Most assuredly I say to you,
"Unless one is born of water and the
spirit, he cannot enter the kingdom of
God." So those who want this to not
suggest any form of baptism of water
suggest that this is about the womb
water.
John 3:4 says, "Nicodemus said to him,
how can a man be born when he is old?
Can he enter a second time? Remember,
it's born again, a second time in his
mother's womb, and be born." That's
suggesting that whatever this water is
is not the womb because he's already had
that womb water. You were born in water.
We all were.
John 3:6 says, "That which is born of
the flesh is flesh, and that which is
born of the spirit is spirit." So the
idea that this is talking about a
rebirth that's the exactly the same,
that wouldn't make any sense because
you've already done that. That wouldn't
be a rebirth because you can't do that.
You can't go back. And even Nicodemus
points that out. So the water of the
wound is not the command because you
can't go back there and do that. You
can't redo that.
But that's what a lot of people believe.
You may believe that. You may have been
taught that. Stay with me. Second view
is the water of the spirit. Let me read
it again. Jesus answered,"Most assuredly
I say to you, unless one is born of
water and the spirit, he cannot enter
the kingdom of God."
Now, is the spirit ever paralleled with
water? Yes, it is. John 7:es 37-39.
He who believes in me, as the scripture
has said, out of his heart will flow
rivers of living water. Living water in
the Bible basically means flowing water,
but it means something else in this
text. I won't get into exactly what it
means right there. I don't have time for
that. But verse 39 says, "But this he
spoke concerning the spirit whom those
believing in him would receive. For the
Holy Spirit was not yet given because
Jesus was not yet glorified." Now
there's one other passage that we can go
to that seems to connect the Holy Spirit
with water. Uh Matthew 3:11, this is
John the baptizer speaking. He said, "I
indeed baptize you with water under
repentance. But he who is coming after
me is mightier than I, whose sandals I'm
not worthy to carry, he will baptize you
with the Holy Spirit and fire." And so
there are quite a number of Protestant
believers that believe that when it says
this about baptism, the water referring
to it's just another way of referring to
the Holy Spirit in the text. A little
bit of a problem with that is simply
saying that uh you need to be reborn of
the spirit and of the spirit, which is
not a normal way you would interpret
that passage. And so yet there are those
who believe that. I'm not yet to the one
I want you to believe necessarily, but
these are the two that have been
suggested so far. I'll give you the
third one that's been suggested for
explaining this text, and that is the
water of the word. In John 3:5 again,
let me read it again. Jesus answered,
"Most assuredly I say to you, unless one
is born of water and the spirit, he
cannot enter the kingdom of God." John
15:3 does make a parallel between the
cleansing power of the word when it says
in John 15:3, you are already clean or
cleansed because of the word which I
have spoken to you. So the word does
clean you. It does change you. It does
take away sin from your life. That's
absolutely true. Ephesians 5 and verse
26 says that he might sanctify and
cleanse her talking about the church
with the washing of water by the word.
That's not literally talking about water
in either of those two cases. It is a
cleansing. The word is what's cleansing.
Again though, if water in this text,
John 3:5, born of water and the spirit
is the word, it seems unnecessary
to include that since they were already
listening to him. So, it would be a
command to listen and receive the
spirit. It's a little difficult to make
that argument in this text, but you can
understand how somebody would get there
from all the scriptures we just looked
at. Okay. So, what I've showed you is up
until this moment, how a large portion
of what I would call Protestantism
gets to either it's the womb or it's the
spirit or it's the word.
Most of the reason that they've gone
there though is
because they are into this. It's by
grace alone through faith alone and
there's nothing you can do. You cannot
do anything to be saved. And so that is
their premise on which draws everything
else out which seems reasonable.
However, it isn't contextual. Let's go
to the fourth. This is the context. When
you stay in context, you find out what a
lot of passages mean. So, I'm going to
make you stay in the context now and see
what in the world was it Jesus was
trying to drive home about the water.
John 3:5 once again, let me read it.
Jesus answered, most assuredly I say to
you, unless one is born of water and the
spirit, he cannot enter the kingdom of
God. was the most natural way of
interpreting this. Well, it's a repeat
in a different way of verse three. Jesus
answered and said to him, most assuredly
I say to you, unless one is born again,
he cannot see the kingdom of God. What
is the context? How do we execute that?
Well, if you stay in the context of John
3:5, born of water and the spirit, then
you have to look in the context.
And in the context is verses 22-
26 and chapter 4:es 1 and 2. The context
verse 22. And these things Jesus said,
"And his disciples came into the land of
Judea, and there he remained with them
and baptized."
That's the context. Verse 23. Why? If it
has nothing to do with the rebirth, why
is he doing this? 23. Now, John also was
baptizing. Why? It has nothing to do
with the rebirth. If it's the womb, if
it's the spirit, if it's the word, why?
Stand in context. 23. Now John also was
baptizing in Ana near Salem because
there was much water there.
Why much water? Because he was
baptizing. And they came and were
baptized. Because there was much water
there. Why water?
Because born of water and the spirit.
Surely he doesn't mean that. It's the
womb. It's the spirit. It's the word.
Verse 24. In context, for John had not
yet been thrown into prison. Verse 25.
Then there arose a dispute between some
of John's disciples and the Jews about
purification. What does all this have to
do with purification? Unless it is about
purification and it's about being born
again. Verse 26. And they came to John
and said to him, "Rabbi, he who was with
you beyond the Jordan that John had
baptized said to whom you have
testified, behold he is baptizing and
all are coming to him." He who Jesus
Jesus is baptizing and all are coming to
him. Why is Jesus baptizing? because
Jesus is preaching born of water and the
spirit and now he's baptizing people in
John chapter 4:es 1 and two still in
context we're just staying in context
here letting the Bible speak for the
Bible therefore when the Lord knew that
the Pharisees had heard that Jesus made
and baptized more disciples than John he
made bapti made disciples and what did
he do with all the disciples he made, he
baptized them. What does that have to do
with anything? Well, if you just stay in
context, it has something to do with
being born again. Verse two, though
Jesus himself did not baptize, but his
disciples. So, he didn't want to make it
a big thing about who he had touched and
baptized because that would mean, oh, I
got baptized by Jesus, you just got
baptized by uh Peter. That would he
didn't want that. But he did make and
baptize. So to stay consistent with the
context
and the subject of the context is water
and water in the context is connected to
rebirth and it's connected to baptism.
So the water of baptism is the most
likely way of reading this text. It is
the most honest exigesus of the text. If
you go any other direction, it may sound
right to you, but this text is about
water baptism.
That's it. So, I suggest will lead you
to say it's the womb or the spirit or
the word because you can make water say
things like that. But in the text, in
the context of the text, if we execute
it, get the meaning out of it, we're
talking about water, baptism,
rebirth, regeneration. Baptism therefore
becomes essential. Not important, but
essential
because that's how you're born again.
Now, there are exceptions to rules in
the Bible.
There are exceptions to rules, but the
exception doesn't make the rule. This is
an important context, and I want to I
want to share this with you because it's
an important thing you need to consider.
So, there are exceptions to rules in the
Bible, but it is the rule that is the
norm. Let me give you an exception to
the rule. So, I've just taught that
apparently in the New Testament, what we
are taught is baptismal regeneration.
That's what I just taught.
Okay, if you didn't get that, baptismal
regeneration, baptismal rebirth, it's
essential
just from this one text. Are there
exceptions? Well, brother Dutton, what
about the thief on the cross? That's
true. Thief on the cross, as far as we
know, did not climb down from the cross
and get baptized. As far as we know, he
wasn't baptized before. And if he was,
he wasn't very good Christian because he
been a thief. So, I'm just saying, okay,
thief on the cross. Is that the rule?
No, that's not the rule. In Matthew 9:6,
it makes it clear that Jesus says, "So,
you know that the son of man or the son
of God has power to forgive sins on
earth. Let me heal this person." It's
made very clear. I've given you some
scriptures there you can look up if you
wish. So, I I just want you to take a
look at that. That's a real thing. And
so I want to prove that the rule is not
the norm. I mean ex exception to the
rule is not the norm. That's an
exception to the rule because of a
specific special situation. You know
it's a special situation. Nobody's ever
going to be in that situation. Anybody
that says they're going to be in that
situation is a liar to themsel. You're
never going to hang on the cross next to
Jesus. It's not going to happen. It's
not your situation. And nobody in your
family is ever going to be in that
situation. and none of your great great
grandparents were in that situation.
Nobody's ever been in that situation,
but it was the situation and it was an
exception. Let me walk down that path.
Now, Enoch did not die. Genesis 5:22,
the Lord took him. Elijah did not die.
The Lord took him. Second Kings chapter
2:1, Lazarus died twice. He died, was
raised to life, and apparently died
again later sometime.
Okay? And yet the normal, the rule laid
out in scriptures is laid out in Hebrews
9:27.
And as it is appointed for men to die
once, but after this the judgment. I
thought man dies once and after that the
judgment. Was that not true? That's the
rule. But are there exceptions? Well,
Enoch was an exception to it. He never
died. Elijah was an exception to that.
He never died. Lazarus was an exception
to that. He didn't die once, he died
twice. And anybody else that God raised
in the New Testament died again. So
there are exceptions to the rule. That
doesn't make the rule. Just because you
can find a guy hanging on the cross that
God saves that way doesn't mean that's
the rule. The rule is what we just
studied. That's the rule. Now, less you
think that I'm just making this stuff
up. Let me say to you now because you
most brethren don't know history. This
idea that baptism has nothing to do with
salvation is only about 3 to 400 years
old.
The vast majority of Christianity has
always held that baptism was a part of
regeneration.
Always. In fact, right now over
threearters of the world that believe in
Jesus believe baptism is essential to
salvation. Did you know that?
The vast majority believe it's
essential. If you don't, you're in the
minority of those who study the
scriptures. Let me prove that. Okay.
Letter to Barnabas in 74 AD wrote this
regarding baptism, the washing which
confers the remission of sins. After we
have stepped down into the water,
burdened with sin and defilement, we
come out of it bearing fruit with
reverence in our heart and hope for
Jesus. And uh 80 AD Hermonus wrote this
that there is no other repentance except
that which took place when we went down
into the water and obtained the
remission of sins of our former sins.
Ignatius of Antioch in 110 AD wrote,
"Let none of you turn deserter. Let your
baptism be your armor, your faith, your
helmet, your love, your spear, your
patient endurance, your paniplyplay."
Clement of Rome wrote in 150, "If we
should disobey his commandments, with
what confidence shall we, if we keep not
our baptism, pure and undefiled, and
enter into the kingdom of God?" Justin
Martyr in 151 wrote, "Whoever are
convinced and believe are led by us to a
place where there is water and there are
reborn in the same kind of rebirth in
which we ourselves were reborn in the
name of God the Lord and Father of all
and our Savior Jesus Christ and of the
Holy Spirit." They received the washing
of water. For Christ said, "Unless you
be reborn, you shall not enter the
kingdom of heaven." Theophilos of
Antioch wrote in 181 that men would at a
future time receive repentance and
remission of sins through water and the
bath of regeneration. All who proceed to
the truth and are born again and receive
a blessing from God. Clement of
Alexandria in AD 191 wrote, "When we are
baptized, we are enlightened. Being
enlightened, we are adopted as sons.
Adopted as sons, we are made perfect.
This work is variously called grace,
illumination, perfection and washing. It
is a washing by which we are cleansed of
sin. A gift of grace by which the
punishment do our sins are remitted.
Tertullian in 203 wrote, "Happy is our
sacrament of water in that by washing
away the sins of our early blindness, we
are set free and admitted into eternal
life." Baptism it except is a corporal
act by which we are plunged into the
water while its effects it's spiritual
in that we are freed from our sins.
Hippolitus and what 215 wrote, "Who do
count these worthy of deserving the
forgiveness of sins by the labor?" Talk
about the labor of baptism, the labor of
regeneration. Make them worthy to be
filled with your Holy Spirit and send
upon them thy grace in confirmation that
they may serve you according to your
will. Cyprien of Carthage wrote in 246,
"Divine mercy was promised for my
salvation, so that anyone might be born
again and quickened into a new life by
the labor or of the saving water."
Afterwards, when the stain of my past
life had been washed away by means of
the water of rebirth, a light from
above, poured itself upon my chastening,
and uh now pure heart afterwards through
the spirit which is breathed from
heaven, a second birth of me, a new man.
Aphrata of the Persian sage in 340
wrote, "The spirit is absent from all
those who born of the flesh until they
come to the water of rebirth and then
they receive the Holy Spirit in the
second birth that through baptism they
receive the Holy Spirit." Siril of
Jerusalem in 350 wrote, "If any man does
not receive baptism, he does not have
salvation. Bearing your sin, you go down
into the water. You go down dead in your
sins and you come up made alive in
righteousness. And Basel the great in
379 wrote, "Baptism is ransom,
forgiveness of debts, the death of sin,
regeneration of the soul, a respplendant
garment, an unbreakable seal, a chariot
to heaven, a royal protector, a gift of
adoption." The Council of Constantinople
and the Nian Creed in 381 wrote, "We
believe in one baptism for the remission
of sins." Ambrose of Milan in 389 wrote,
"The Lord was baptized not to be
cleansed himself, but to cleanse the
water, so that those that waters
cleansed by the flesh of Christ, which
knew no sin, might have the power of
baptism. Whoever comes therefore to the
washing of Christ lays aside his sins."
Augustine in 412, 420 and 421 wrote this
and I kept all three sections.
Christians call baptism and this is the
last one. Christians call baptism
salvation from an ancient and as I
suppose apostolic tradition by which the
churches of Christ hold inherently that
without baptism and participation at the
table of the Lord, it is impossible for
any man to attain either to the kingdom
of God or to salvation. Baptism washes
away absolutely all our sins. Baptism
which is celebrated among us. All who
attain to this grace die thereby to sin
and they are thereby alive by being
reborn in the baptismal font.
And somebody says nobody believes that
Rex
over threequarters of the world believe
it. And it's because the text and the
context can't be argued with. Why did
they all believe it? Doesn't matter that
they believed it. If the whole world
didn't believe what I believe. I'm just
simply trying to point out this idea
that this is new. This is different.
This is not right. And you're making
stuff up. You're building a cult. Folks,
let's be honest. The wisdom of the
ancients examining the context of John
3:5 alone without any other scripture.
We didn't go to any other scripture. I
haven't pushed any other to prove this
just the context. You have to drop your
bias.
You have to exedute a text not is it.
You have to understand that John the
Baptizer connected forgiveness of sins
with baptism. Jesus the Lord connected
forgiveness of sins with baptism.
It's called the rebirth. It's called the
rebirth because it is like when you were
born. When you were born the first time,
it was in water and you came out of that
water and you got a you got a breath.
So similar that you come out of the
waters of baptism and the Holy Spirit
comes within.
There it is. That's why it's called
that. And so in Acts 2:38 when the
church began on that day and they said
men and brethren what shall we do
then Peter stood up and said there's
nothing whatsoever you can do just
believe in the Lord Jesus.
No
he said repent. Change your heart.
Repent and be baptized. Why be baptized?
For the remission of your sins and
you'll receive the gift of the Holy
Spirit. For this promise is to you
and all that are a far off, even as many
as the Lord our God should call. If you
want to hear it today, that call is to
you. If you have not been baptized, we
would want to serve you any way we can.
Won't you come if you need to while we
stand and while we sing?
