Good morning. Oh, okay. I got it here.
Um, this morning, well, well, I'd like
to thank Rex and the elders for uh
asking me to preach this morning, and I
uh I appreciate the opportunity, and
I've been praying that it would be
beneficial to everybody. I know it's
been to me. Um, this morning, I'd like
to talk about unity. Two kinds of unity
from the uh book of Ephesians in chapter
4. One is family unity. It's a unity
that we're to preserve. And then there's
uh functional unity which comes uh a
little bit further down in chapter 4:es
11-16.
Functional unity is a unity that we're
to promote. And uh I'd like to talk
about these. But first of all, I I'd
like to talk about the first um verse in
chapter 4. Therefore, the prisoner of I,
the prisoner of the Lord, implore you to
walk in a manner worthy of the calling
with which you have been called. Notice
that Paul is saying these things. He's
going to tell give a whole bunch of
things that we should do as Christians
instruct us in our Christian life. And
the basis that he's calling us to do it
is our calling, our upward calling. He's
not saying do these things or you're
going to be condemned.
If you don't do these things, you're
going to be um under God's con
condemnation or wrath. What he's saying
is in the light of our calling,
he's he's pulling us upward uh in
accordance to who we are and where God
has placed us. And so, it's a positive
it's a positive thing, but we need to
look at that calling. And he talked
about it in the first three uh in the
first three chapters. Let's see if this
thing works. Yes, it does. Um, in the
first three chapters,
what has happened?
Paul reminds us that in all of eternity,
God had when when God was thinking about
creating mankind, he understood that if
I make man, he's going to fall and he's
going to be lost and I'm going to have
to go down there and live like one of
them and die for them to save them.
and and Jesus's death, burial, and
resurrection was planned in all of
eternity. It wasn't a it wasn't
something that, oh, oops, I made a
mistake. Now I've got to fix it kind of
a thing. It was something that he had
planned in eternity and he went ahead
with and he worked it out. And not only
that, but he wanted all of mankind to
have advantage of all of this.
And so we were children of wrath.
But in Christ, what happens? It's not
just a change of laws.
It's a change of life. It's a change of
relationship.
We go from being uh children of wrath
because the wages of sin is death. where
where perfect obedience to the law means
we're going to be lost
to a new relationship
with God. It's not like we have just a
new set of rules. We're children of God
now. We've been born again. Um and as
children, we're expected to grow. We're
disciples of Christ. And as disciples,
we're expected to learn. In Matthew 28,
um, we're told, you know, the apostles
were told, you know, make disciples,
baptizing them in the name of the
father, the son, and the holy spirit,
teaching them to observe all that I have
commanded you. So now
in Christ, we have this relationship
where we're to continue learning, where
we're to continue growing. And that
means okay we we will mess up. We will
make mistakes. We will sin. But
nevertheless, God is still with us and
working with us to grow us. And our
responsibility
is faithfulness.
It isn't perfection. It's faithfulness.
Um I'm not a perfect husband, but I can
be a faithful husband. I'm not a perfect
son, but I can be a faithful son. And
that's what we're being called as. And
this is the calling that Paul is
referring to when he's when he's calling
us to walk in a manner worthy uh of the
calling with which we've been called.
So with that in mind,
he talks about a family unity
and this is in verses 2 through six.
First of all, he talks about uh well,
let me read it in verse two and three.
with all humility and gentleness, with
patience, showing tolerance for one
another in love, being diligent to
preserve the unity of the spirit in the
bond of peace.
We're being called to preserve the unity
of the spirit.
Oh, what does that mean? Well, it means
we've been given a unity of the spirit.
He's not telling us to make a unity of
the spirit. We have a unity of the
spirit and we're to hold on to it and
not let it be disrupted.
How how does that work? I mean, you
think about it. Um,
it's a family. If you think of it as a
family unity, I think it will be easier
to understand. Um,
you have children
and what happens when as the children
are growing up, they fuss and they fume,
right? But they're still in your family,
right?
And what do you do as a parent? You try
to teach them that you're a family and
you're trying to teach the younger the
the younger ones to respect the older
ones and vice versa, that we're a family
and we're trying to preserve this unity
of a family.
um that we already been given. You
haven't been chosen. You don't choose
who your brothers and sisters are, but
yet you have to learn to get along with
them, right? Um there's another way of
looking at it and it's a more a
practical application really. Um, if
you're a um if you're a newlywed,
you know, it's it's all wonderful and
roses and and you're you climb into that
magical uh that magical carriage that
takes you out into the sunset into he,
you know, happily ever after land,
right? And it it works for a little
while and then all of a sudden you have
to unload the carriage and move into
your apartment. And then all of a sudden
you start to notice stuff
and you notice stuff that you never knew
before.
You you notice that your wife doesn't
think like you do. She doesn't think
like a man. Boy, doesn't she think like
a man? And she notices that you don't
think like a woman. and and your your
family backgrounds start to come out and
what you used to do and what you used to
assume that the wife always used to do
that wasn't the other family's tradition
and all of these things that you never
knew about one another. Some of them are
nice, but some of them, you know, get
under your skin and you have arguments
about them and then you wonder, well,
did I did I marry the right person?
And how do you deal with that?
Uh well, it's right here in verse two.
With all humility and gentleness, with
patience,
uh showing tolerance for one another and
love. And that's the same way that
happens when we're baptized. Somebody, a
lot of people when they come from the
world, especially Yeah. And if you grew
up in the church and you were baptized,
you already know that we're all people.
and we accidentally insult each other
and step on one another's toes and bang
into each other. And you already know
that we have to learn how to be tolerant
to one another. We'll have to learn how
to put up with one another and and all
of our foibless. But if you're from the
outside world, sometimes you think uh
you know, everything everybody's going
to be having this halo and and these
wings sprouting out the back and then
you find out that well, you accidentally
get insulted or somebody gives you a
dummy slap because you say something
wrong and what's going on here? Am I in
the right place? It's the same kind of
thing, isn't it? And and so what Paul is
saying here is we have a family unity.
God put us together as brothers and
sisters in Christ. We were baptized into
Christ for as many of you uh have been
baptized into Christ, have been clothed
with Christ. We were born uh we have the
spirit of Christ. We have the seal of
God's redemption. Uh we are brothers and
sisters whether we like it or not.
Um there isn't any there isn't any sign
on our baptistry that says um uh that
says uh you know no Republicans or or no
Democrats.
I mean there isn't anything like that.
The only qualification is faith
and repentance.
And if if you have the faith and you
have the repentance,
you can be baptized and it's a real
baptism and you receive the Holy Spirit
and you're forgiven and you're a brother
or sister and then and then all of a
sudden you realize that everybody around
you is so different and there's friction
to be had and how do we handle that and
and of course the answer is right in
that chapter two where in verse two
rather which I just read it's with all
humility and gentleness, with patience,
showing tolerance to one another in
love.
Who would have thought? Who would have
thought that the fruit of the spirit and
um the fruit of the spirit and the
sermon on the mount would be the tools
that we would need in order to maintain
the unity of the spirit.
Uh I it kind of makes sense, doesn't it?
um to use the fruit of the spirit, need
the fruit of the spirit to do this or
humility.
Um we need we need humility.
In fact, when most of the problems that
come up and most really the fertilizer
for the sins that we commit have to do
with pride and selfishness. I mean that
that tends to be uh the root cause of a
lot of the stuff that goes on and a lot
of the problems we have with one another
is how dare you offend me? How dare you
disagree with me? The center of all
knowledge and and godliness
and all that kind of stuff.
And don't you know that the man's
supposed to be the head of the castle
and you're you know and that kind of
stuff
with humility
with hum if we approach these things
with humility a lot of this stuff is
going to be shortcircuited
and we have we have a unity because we
belong to Christ. We have a humility
because we're brothers and sisters.
Well, I'm gonna I'm getting ahead of
myself because there's another list I'm
going to go through. But with humility
and gentleness, this has to do with
self-control.
Um, a gentle horse as opposed to a wild
horse, a horse that hasn't been tamed,
you know, goes off and and does damage
uncontrollably. But a a tame horse, a a
gentle horse, isn't a weak horse. It's a
horse that's controllable and under
control. And we need to be under God's
control. Um, and then with patience and
endurance,
we can show tolerance.
We can overlook things.
We can understand. And with with the
humility, you know, we think of, look, I
do stuff that irks other people.
I do things that insult other people. I
don't intend to, but I do.
And how why can't I understand that
other people do that to me? And why
can't I give them a break?
Why can't we give each other a break?
Why can't we be patient enough to listen
to see where we're coming from and and
to relate to one another? And maybe
we'll never agree on everything. Well,
that's okay, and it's probable.
But most of the things that we dis
disagree on are going to be burned up in
the judgment day. So what does it
matter?
You know, we have to take a look at the
eternal um the eternal values that we
share rather than just um the physical
things that we all so often tend to
argue about. Um, our unity already
exists because we're part of one body,
the the body of Christ.
We're we're all part we've been baptized
into Christ's body.
Um, we've been sharing the same spirit.
The same Holy Spirit lives in me that
lives in you. We have the same hope in
all of eternity. We all have the stamp
of God's redemption. the Holy Spirit. We
all have the down payment of God's
redemption and and our inheritance um in
in the Holy Spirit. We have the same
hope of the resurrection.
We have the same expectation that death
is not the end for any of us that we
will rise. The Holy Spirit that dwells
in us will also raise us like he raised
Jesus. We have the same Lord.
When we were baptized, we were saying we
want Jesus to be our Lord and our
Savior.
Uh he is the one who calls the shots.
That's part of our repentance.
And and so we can argue about who we
want for president, but we don't elect
our Lord. He's already our Lord. And if
we have him as our Lord, he's the Lord
over all other lords.
He's the one who has over all of the
powers in all of this world. And and so
we ought not to get so all upset about
what's going on down here that much. Um
we have one faith. Now, here's the
tricky part, and we'll get into it more
as we go, but
when we talk about there's one faith
here, he's talking about the same faith
that a person who's just drying himself
off from baptism and the faith who's
been in Christ for 60 years has. It's
the faith that produces our new life.
It's the faith that produces our
repentance, the faith that produces our
our submission to Christ. the faith that
we need to become children of God.
He says we have the same faith, but the
person just being baptized doesn't know
as much as the person who's been in
Christ for years and years and has a a
chance to practice and mature.
What does it mean there's one faith?
Sometimes we get confused. We start to
think that um our mature understanding,
everything that we maturely understand
because we've studied it out, everybody
has to be in lock step. And so sometimes
we want to give a dummy slap to somebody
who's new because they got some
doctrinal point wrong.
No,
the our oneness has to do with our
salvation. Our oneness has to do with
our position as a child of God. And yes,
we do teach one another. And yes, we do
nurture one another. And yes, we help
one another learn more and become better
and and follow Christ more carefully.
And there are more things to learn in
obeying Jesus after we become disciples.
But this idea of one faith, one complete
absolute set of doctrines, a set of
behaviors,
we we ought not to well, we need to cut
some cut each other some slack in that
regard. Let me just say it that way.
There is there are answers
to a lot of doctrinal things. And
there's some answers that I know I'm not
going to get until after I'm in heaven.
And maybe I won't even bother to an
answer ask the question when I get
there. I don't know who the man of sin
is in in First Thessalonians. I'm sorry.
And if it's a quiz and I have to answer
it right to get to heaven, I'm in
trouble. But there are lots of stuff
like that, you know. Um but the one
faith we all share is the faith that we
needed to become Christians in the first
place. And so we ought to respect one
another as brothers and sisters in that
regard. And there's one baptism. The
baptism that Peter preached in the first
century is the baptism that we see in
the word of God today. And we're born
again by the same seed that was preached
by Peter in the first century in um
first Peter
chapter 1.
I'd like to read just in verses 22 to 25
uh in regard to this
um says since you have in obedience to
the truth he's talking to Christians now
okay since you have in obedience to the
truth purified your souls for a sincere
love of the brethren fervently love one
another from the heart we learn how to
love one another in the family because
we are family for you have been born
again not of seed which is perishable
but imperishable. That is through the
living and enduring word of God. For all
flesh is like grass and all its glory
like the flower of grass. The grass
withers and the flower falls off but the
Lord of the word the word of the Lord
endures forever.
And this is the word which was preached
to you.
There's a seed. You know, there are a
lot of um oh, agricultural and
biological um analogies in the Bible,
and our life is described that way. And
we're born again of seed. And he's
saying the seed we were born again with
was seed that is imperishable.
You know, I have seeds in my
refrigerator that are about 10 years
old, and I don't I if I plant them, I
don't think many of them will come
alive. I I think they're gone. I'm just
too lazy to clean it out to tell you the
truth. But the seed that caused us to be
born again, the imperishable word of God
does not die.
And you don't have to dry it up and you
don't have to freeze it to make it last.
It's imperishable. It does not die. And
the seed that Peter preached on
Pentecost in Acts chapter 2
is the same active living seed that was
preached to us that we believed and we
responded to when we were baptized. And
so what that tells me is the same life
that God was producing in the first
century Christians is the same life that
he's producing in us as we respond to
that same message. And so all of these
one things, all of these ones
belong to us, have been given to us.
It's a gift. They're not it's
non-negotiable.
uh you know, we don't say, "Well, we're
going to have peace, so we can um you
know, we can do mix and match with
doctrines and mix and match with
teachings." No, this is a this is a path
of life that God has given us and we say
yes to it. And we have that in common
and that's what we need to preserve.
This is the family unity that we need to
guard
and don't let our personal pride or
personal differences interfere with it.
There's a second thing that I'd like to
talk about and I yeah I have I have some
time I guess um is functional unity.
This is um
a section se a second section in in
chapter 4 starting in verse 11. I'd like
to read it. It's complicated. Um but
anyway, well I'll point out pieces of
it. I won't unpack everything.
He talks about first of all before he
gets to verse 11, he talks about Jesus
being in this um what would you call it?
a big parade that they used to have when
uh when victors uh generals would come
back in victory. they conquered a new
territory and they would distribute
gifts to people and they would
distribute bribes and and all sorts of
stuff uh and declaring victory and
they'd have these Roman victory parades
and uh picture Jesus as a as a victor
over death, a conquering hero and he's
giving gifts to men and part of the
gifts that he gives are jobs.
Okay? You know, you give promotions to
folks, right? And you give jobs and
things like that to people when you have
power. And Jesus was doing that. And
then in verse 11, he says what he gives
to the church.
He gave some as apostles and some as
prophets and some as evangelists and
some as pastors and teachers for the
equipping of the saints in the work of
service to the building up of the body
of Christ. I'll stop here for a minute.
He talks about roles
uh functions that uh various people have
been given the prophets and and apostles
in delivering God's word and the
evangelists and pastors and teachers and
taking the delivered word and helping
the church apply it and learn it uh and
helping us all be equipped what?
Equipped for the work of service.
Okay. Um verse 13, being equipped for
the work of service for the building up
of the body of Christ. In verse 13,
until we all attain to the unity of the
faith and of the knowledge of the son of
God, to a mature man, to the measure of
the stature which belongs to the
fullness of Christ. Now, here's sort of
seems like a contradiction, doesn't it?
We have a unity of the faith that we've
been given
in order to become Christians, right?
But here he's talking about until we
attain to the unity of the faith.
What he's talking about here is a matter
of growth and a growth in the knowledge
of the son of God to a mature man. He's
talking about the the growth of faith
that leads to maturity. We have the we
are united in the faith that enables us
to be born again. But we also need to
grow in a mature faith so that we become
more and more like Christ.
What's our job?
Our job is to become more like Christ.
It's the job of a disciple to become
like his teacher, right? And we're
disciples of Christ. It's not to tick
off every uh you know, every do and
don't correctly, but it's to become like
Christ. But how does that happen?
Well, it happens through our practicing
God's word and our encouraging one
another and our working together and our
functioning together.
It happens by our leaders helping us
develop. Um, it happens. But how do we
do it? How do we follow Christ? You've
seen you've seen the uh the the um all
those bracelet bracelets
you know WW JD you know what would Jesus
do
and well you start start out with that
you don't know much about Jesus it can
go wrong pretty quick you know you think
well Jesus wants me to be happy and if I
don't get to do that I'm not going to be
happy so Jesus wants me to do
And what's the uh logical equivalent of
all of that? It's well, I want to do
what makes me happy and that's what's
going to control me. And it has nothing
to do with what Jesus wants me to do.
We need to learn what how Jesus thinks.
We need to learn how Jesus evaluates
things, right? Um that's part of it. Um
we're supposed to grow in discernment.
Um,
in in Galatians,
uh, Paul reminds people, let me, uh, let
me go to a couple places here.
In, um, in the book of Galatians, he
says that it isn't circumcision or
uncircumcision that matters, but faith
working through love.
And how what does love look like? Well,
you have to look at Jesus and you have
to understand what Jesus love looks
like. Uh we have to grow in discernment
and knowledge uh in order to control the
love and express it properly. In
Ephesians 1:9 it says, "And this I pray
that your love may abound still more and
more in real knowledge and all
discernment."
It's not just love everybody, love,
love, love like you know the Beatles
song, but our love is to be channeled
in real knowledge and all discernment.
You know, you get these lists. Um there
are two lists I'm thinking of. One is at
the end of Romans chapter 1 and the
other one is a list of the deeds of the
flesh in Galatians chapter 6. And it
ends with and things like these.
Well, you have a list of sins. I know
what sins I'm not supposed to do because
it's bump bump bump bump. It's all
listed down, right?
What does that things like these mean?
How do I figure out what a thing like
that is?
And we argue about stuff like that
because it doesn't it doesn't say.
But yet, we're supposed to grow in real
knowledge and discernment. And by
practice and understanding what these
things are and and being able to compare
things that we know are sin to things
that we think may or may not be, we get
to better feel for what we should or
should not be doing. And we get to think
more about what would Jesus really do in
this or that situation. Uh there was an
example. How am I doing? I'm gonna wrap
it up pretty quick. There's an example
that was um that I really loved and I
remember from years ago from Wendell
Broom. Um there's a rich fellow
uh he had a nice house and he had a maid
and family and his house burned down and
his maid called him up at work and and
she said, "Oh, I got bad news. The house
burned down." And and the maid said,
"Well, don't worry. I I saved the vacuum
cleaner and the and the um and the dust
mop. And of course, the owner of the
house said, "Vacuum cleaner, dust mop.
What about my golf clubs? What about my
hunting rifle? What about the kids? What
about my wife? You know, where you are
and what your role is might taint the
way you judge things. We need to get
under get into Jesus mind." And we get
that by growing in knowledge and growing
in discernment. Um, and so that's part
of this idea of functional utility. I'm
going to hurry it up because I'm running
out of time. The picture of the church
is organic. It's not it's not like a
diagram, organizational diagram. It's
easy to make one. Um, but you get the
idea that, you know, it's the people in
the in the middle and the top level that
get to do all the stuff and the people
underneath just are the consumers.
That's not the way it works. We're to be
we're to be equipped for the work of
service. All of us are involved.
All of us are involved. Not just not
just the leaders, not just the deacons.
All of us are involved. And not only
that, but a a diagram like like you'd
see on your right
sort of implies that there's a a
hierarchy and a u you can climb your way
up the chart.
You know, I put in my time and then
maybe I'll graduate to be a deacon or an
elder. And what happened when the
apostles started to elbow one another
about who was going to be number one and
two in the kingdom?
There was another lesson about humility
and service and sacrifice, wasn't there?
Um,
a ordinary the ordinary business model
of the church is not the real model of
the church. The real model of the church
is the body.
Um, it's not like my small intestine is
going to grow up and become a large
intestine
or or finally after a long time my my
left hand will get to be uh get the
advantage of belonging to a guy who's
left-handed. It isn't going to happen.
God put it where it is and it needs to
function where it is using the gifts
that it has. And that's the way it is
with us. Can you imagine? Can you I
don't know if you're familiar with um oh
with uh oh what what do you call it um
with alalfa
little you know little in the old in the
old movies spanky and our gang little
alalfa he thought he was the best singer
in the world somebody's got to tell him
he's not going to be song leader
and you got to do it gently but you got
to tell them you know we have a place
each one of us has a place in God's
kingdom
And it's not just in an organizational
chart. It it gets to be in an
organizational chart and it's it's good
and that's okay. But each and every one
of us has a nook and a cranny in this
life
where darkness is that only we can
shine. And if we're becoming more and
more like Christ, we're doing our
function where Jesus has put us, where
God has put us. Um, we have this
functioning together. And I'll end up
with one last thing and then we can
stop. Um, I'm a couple minutes over.
I'll take two more. Um,
we grow from the proper working of each
individual product. in um in chapter 4.
Uh let's see, here we go.
But speaking the truth in love, we are
to grow up in all aspects into him who
is the head. From whom the whole body
being fitted and held together by that
which every joint supplies according to
the proper working of each individual
part causes the growth of the body for
the building up of itself in love.
It's according to the proper working of
each individual part that the body grows
up. You you remember the um do you
remember the um do you do you remember
the Norway team in in the u in the
soccer contest just recently? Uh maybe
you had seen it on the news. They had
this little cheer um cheerleading kind
of a thing or a pep talk amongst
themselves and they were all dressed up
in their Norwegian flag uniforms and
some of them had the Viking hats and
they were arranged just like a a Viking
warship and they were lined up like they
were rowers and they they go row row
row. You ever see that? And that that's
something that caught on for a little
while. you know, they got their 15
minutes of fame, but it illustrates
something
because there's the proper working of
each individual part.
If you're on a row team, you have to row
in unison and you have to follow the guy
who's
pounding out the beat. If you're
pounding out your own beat, you go row,
row, row, row, row, and everybody else
is going row, row, you're going to be
banging people around
and your boat's going to start turning
in a circle or something or you're going
to get a fist fight in the on deck or
something. Uh, you can't do that. It's
the proper working of each individual
part. If some people don't row, that's
going to cause problems, too. Proper
working of each individual each
individual part means
We cooperate with each other and we work
together.
But it's not just that. We have to be
connected to the head.
Working together is great, but if we
have the wrong goal,
we're we're not doing it right either.
Can you imagine? You know, my knee is
connected to my foot. My my right knee
is connected to my right foot, and it
gets so preoccupied with what it's doing
with my right foot that it forgets to be
connected to my head. I need help being
carried off of this podium.
We have to be both. We have to row
together and we have to be connected to
the head together. And so this
functional unity we preserve by pulling
together and getting our drum beat from
Christ. So those are the two things I
want to really emphasize. Um we have a
family unity
that we preserve by by
that we have to preserve by putting up
with one another, being tolerant of one
another. And we have a functional unity
that we need to maintain by pulling
together and going to Jesus's feet.
