Stories of origins are of interest to
me. I don't know if they're interesting
to you, but I like stories of origins.
How did it come to be and when? Uh what
was its original purpose and form? Uh
for example, think about words or
phrases. Uh have you ever used the
phrase or heard the phrase a flash in
the pan?
Does anyone know what the origin of that
is? Don't use your computer.
What's the origin?
&gt;&gt; That's right. So, it's if you couldn't
hear, it's about black powder rifles.
And it didn't matter whether it's a
rifle or if it was a pistol, but black
powder guns had a pan that was intended
to light off the main charge. And so, if
you had a flash in the pan, the main
charge didn't light. It just had a flash
in the pan. And so, it's a dud, right?
We would call that a misfire today. But
that's the phrase. And so you
understand, we've got this phrase, you
may have even used it, but that's the
origin of it. Some others are not so
clear on what their origin is. In fact,
they're widely debated. You ever heard
the phrase the whole nine yards?
Yes, there are people that try to tie
that to uh a World War II fighter, but
it actually appears in literature prior
to that. So, not likely that that's the
answer. There's another phrase, Katie
bar the door. Some of you have heard
that, some of you haven't. I found most
people who are from the south have
probably heard it. People that didn't,
but not so much. But in any case, the
point is stories about the origins of
things like phrases are interesting or
at least can be. What about events or
traditions? That can be interesting as
well. For example, the the tradition of
giving the bride away. There's a
tradition that resides behind that. It's
not just something that we do. There's
actually a tradition behind it. The hand
salute. Military people do it. Sometimes
they do it well, sometimes not so much.
It seems like they forget their training
as they get older. But the hand salute
actually has a story behind it that goes
back to the days of knights. And so
there's a story. If we don't know those
things, doesn't mean we can't do the
salute. It just means we miss some of
the depth of what's trying to be
communicated in that. Think about the
4th of July. What's another name for
Fourth of July?
Independence Day. But people forget that
Independence Day or the Fourth of July,
it can be a a day that's just for
picnics and fireworks, but there's a
story behind it that gives it special
meaning. Think about the Continental
Congress and the Declaration of
Independence. You think about
Washington, Jefferson, Franklin, and
Adams. You think about the Boston Tea
Party, Paul Rivere, Lexington and
Concord and war.
Without the story, we are greatly
impoverished. We lose sight of our
heritage
and we will drift and over time become
something radically different from what
we were supposed to be, even though we
think we're exactly what we were
supposed to be.
The point is that all of that meaning
should be present.
Now think of another example and that is
the church.
One can appreciate the fellowship,
the sense of belonging, the call to
virtuous living and certainly appreciate
the prospect of God's forgiveness. But
what is the story?
How did the church come to be? And when?
What was its original purpose and form?
What does all of that mean?
Is it just a weekly gathering for our
own introspection and meditation
punctuated by singing and a sermon so
that we can be so we can make ourselves
better people?
Or is there something much more
substantial that's going on? Could it be
that some of us, like many others, have
become disconnected from the story, from
our story, that we've lost sight of our
heritage, and we have become something
radically different from what we were
supposed to be, even though we think
we're exactly
what we were supposed to be.
That's the reason really for this study
is to recognize our story. And when you
think about when Acts is pinned, and
I'll cover that a little bit more in a
moment, but it was a message to people
who were Christians to remind them of
their story.
Not just those who were of Jewish
descent
who should have been looking for and who
should have received Messiah when he
came, but for those of Gentile descent
who did not have that heritage as part
of their given family heritage, but that
through Jesus it became their story.
That all of that that's your story, too.
And it's mine and it's yours today as
well. that we have a story that is deep
and rich,
not because of Alexander Campbell, not
because of others who were pioneering a
restoration movement, but because of
Jesus and what God did through him on a
cross for all time. That's important for
us to get. So, let me direct you to the
text. That's where I want to spend our
time. This class is intended to follow
our study of Mark. Uh, I'll apologize
now. I didn't think to ask for it to be
recorded. So, Mark was not recorded, so
if you missed it, it's still here. And
the book is better, just in case you
wondered. But I would encourage you to
study the gospel accounts. I like Mark
for a number of reasons, but it's short,
it's concise, you can get through it in
a single reading and not feel like you
have burned an entire weekend. Uh, I
would encourage you to read that, let it
be familiar to you, and Acts is a nice
followup. Of course, Luke wrote both the
Gospel according to Luke and Acts. So,
if you're one of those people who've got
a little bit of the obsessive compuls
compulsive thing going. If you want to
do Luke and Acts, that's fine, too.
There'll be more continuity perhaps, but
the stories are the same. So, let me
direct your attention first to the book
of Acts, verses 1 and two. The former
account I made, O Theophilos, of all
that Jesus began both to do and teach,
unto the day in which he was taken up,
after he through the Holy Spirit had
given commandments to the apostles whom
he had chosen, to whom he also presented
himself alive after his suffering by
many infallible proofs, being seen by
them during 40 days, and speaking of the
things pertaining to the kingdom of God.
And being assembled together with them,
he commanded them not to depart from
Jerusalem, but to wait for the promise
of the Father, which he said, you've
heard from me. For John truly baptized
with water, but you shall be baptized
with the Holy Spirit not many days from
now. Therefore, when they had come
together, they asked him, saying, Lord,
will you at this time restore the
kingdom to Israel? And he said to them,
"It's not for you to know times or
seasons which the Father has put in his
own authority, but you shall receive
power when the Holy Spirit has come upon
you, and you shall be witnesses to me in
Jerusalem and on all Judea and Samaria
and to the end of the earth." Now when
he had spoken these things, while they
watched, he was taken up, and a cloud
received him out of their sight. And
while they looked steadfastly toward
heaven as he went up, behold, two men
stood by them in white apparel, who also
said, "Men of Galilee, why do you stand
gazing up into heaven? This same Jesus
who was taken up from you into heaven
will so come in like manner as you saw
him go into heaven." So that's our first
11 verses. And I'm going to focus right
now on the first two. In fact, verses
one and the first part of verse two. No
surprise, Acts follows Luke's gospel
account
in Luke 1:es 1 to4. And you know what?
Let me just pause the tape and I want to
say something. Um, I carry around with
me, like most of you do, a device. I
don't fault you for doing that. I have
my Bible on this. I have a lot of study
helps on this. I've got the Greek, the
Hebrew, a bunch of other stuff that is
useful to me in a Bible study. I've got
it right at my fingertips.
However, I want you to notice what I
brought.
And there's a reason why. And I will
admit as I say this that I was convicted
about something.
When you say, "Turn in your Bibles to
Luke chapter 1." And you actually used
to hear pages turning. Do you remember
that? And I'm not saying that you can't
find it here and you can't read it here.
I'm saying there's something that to the
other people sitting in the audience who
hear that what is it saying? We can all
go we can look at it for ourselves and
see if what he's saying is right. Is
that true? So the fact that we carry an
actual paper and bound even if yours is
bound in imitation genuine leather,
right? You can turn those pages and you
are actually witnessing to those around
that we actually believe that the Bible
text is where the answers are. Can you
hear me on this? So may I encourage you?
Get back in the habit if you've lost the
habit. Grab your actual Bible. Bring
your actual Bible and let's hear those
pages turn. Can we do that? If you don't
want to, I'm not going to throw you out
or call you out. It's not that. I just
think there's an incredible witness
that's lost when it's just on this.
Plus, there's a second benefit when
you're using this, unless you put it on
airplane mode.
What's going to happen?
Even if it's on silent, somebody sends
you a text message or they send you an
email and this the evil one knows he can
distract you.
Tell me what message is so important
that you should take it right now.
So there's a secondary reason. So yes,
mine is on airplane mode because I don't
want to know about all that stuff. I
want to be focused on him. Is that fair?
Hopefully that doesn't sound too preachy
or judgy. I don't mean it that way, but
it's just an encouragement because
somebody said it in my hearing and I was
convicted. I thought that's important.
Turning those pages matter. So, can I
encourage you to turn in your Bibles to
Luke chapter 1? If all you got your
device, it's okay for today. Luke 1,
beginning in verse one. In as much as
many have taken in hand to set in order
a narrative of those things which have
been fulfilled among us, just as those
who from the beginning were eyewitnesses
and ministers of the word delivered them
to us. It seemed good to me also, having
had perfect understanding of all things
from the very first, to write to you an
orderly account, most excellent
Theophilos, that you may know the
certainty of those things in which you
were instructed.
So Luke begins by saying that Luke is
writing he captured all of that gospel
narrative account for the benefit of
Theophilos whom he calls most excellent
Theophilles.
And he says this was so that you would
know of certainty the things in which
you were instructed.
Well, Acts chapter 1 begins the former
account I made, O Theophilus. So what do
you suspect the former account is?
He's referring to the gospel narrative
that he penned. So the former account I
made, O Theophilus, of all that Jesus
began both to do and teach until the day
in which he was taken up. And so the
gospel narrative goes from uh capturing
Jesus life, his ministry, his death, and
his resurrection.
A couple of the gospel narratives
actually include his ascension. Not all
four, but a couple of them do. But Luke
is going to pick up with the book of
Acts with that fact that Jesus is
resurrected.
Uh it is unanimously attributed by early
church fathers to Luke. That's not true
of Where did you go, Owen? It's not true
of Hebrews. There's disagreement among
early church fathers who wrote the book
of Hebrews. Right. And I think if I mean
the punch line, not to steal your
thunder, is if God really wanted us to
know for sure who wrote Hebrews, guess
what? We'd know. But we don't. And we
need to be okay with that. Luke is the
beloved physician. Colossians 4:14.
Paul refers to him also as a fellow
laborer. Fleiman 24. And he's mentioned
again by name in 2 Timothy 4:1. Those
are the only three times in scripture
that Luke is mentioned. It is written as
I already said to Theophilus
uh in Luke he says most excellent
Theophilles that suggests that at least
perhaps he was someone of honorable
estate. There is some conjecture among
uh scholars that maybe what was going on
is that Theophilles was in a position of
power. And so Luke is writing to him
essentially to remind him of his faith
to remind him where it came from and
essentially ask for mercy upon the
church as things were beginning to heat
up uh with empirical persecution.
I don't know that I buy that, but that's
one of the thoughts. Another thought is
that theophilos which means it's a Greek
uh
I can't think of the word combination of
two words compound word goodness it went
away it's a compound word that means
godlover has led some to believe that
theophilos is actually a pseudonym that
it wasn't an actual person but it was
intended as a pseudonym to really
describe any god lover or any Christian
but most scholars uh are fairly
dismissive of this thought they think
theophilos was an actual person. In any
case, the book of Acts begins then with
the resurrection of Jesus and it's going
to go the very end of it ends with the
end of Paul's Roman imprisonment. So, I
want you to pause where we are. Let's go
to Acts chapter 28. And I want you to
see this.
Obviously, we'll touch on it more when
we get there, Rex, for your benefit in
two or three years.
Acts 28, beginning in 16. Now, when we
came to Rome, the centurion delivered
the prisoners to the captain of the
guard, but Paul was permitted to dwell
by himself with a soldier who guarded
him. What does that sound like?
Paul's one of the prisoners, but he's
kept not in prison, but how would you
describe that?
House arrest. Yeah. And it came to pass
after three days that Paul called the
leaders of the Jews together. So when
they had come together, he said to them,
"Men and brethren, though I have done
nothing against our people or the
customs of our fathers, yet I was
delivered as a prisoner from Jerusalem
into the hands of the Romans." Uh skip
down to verse uh 30 and 31.
Then Paul dwelt two whole years in his
own rented house and received all who
came to him preaching the kingdom of God
and teaching the things which concern
the Lord Jesus Christ with all
confidence. No one forbidding him. So
how long was Paul under house arrest?
Two full years. How do we know that?
Because it says it right here in the
text. So, Acts ends with the end of his
imprisonment. How do you know it was the
end? Because if he said he dwelt for two
full years, he's saying that was the end
of it. Uh Paul was imprisoned in 61 or
62. There's not complete clarity about
whether it was the end of 61 or early
62. As the text says, kept under house
arrest for two two full years.
Titus,
not Titus the writer of the scripture,
but Titus the Roman uh general led the
Roman army to seize Jerusalem and
destroyed the temple in AD70.
Yet in the entire and I'm going to quote
this is from Leo BS. Yet in the entire
book of Acts, there is not a single word
to indicate that the author of this book
knew anything of that event or even of
the causes which brought about its
destruction. Jerusalem in Acts is always
mentioned as still in its grandeur. The
temple service and sacrifices continue
to be observed. At the great feasts,
crowds of strangers assembled as the law
enjoined. And among its population, the
scribes and Pharisees and Sadducees act
the same parts which they do in the
history found in the gospel according to
Luke. So I share that with you to say
the date of this of its writing is
somewhere between AD63 and AD70 before
that Jerusalem is overrun and the temple
destroyed but after uh Paul's
imprisonment.
Acts follows the gospel. Now that seems
intuitively obvious. I mentioned it at
the beginning of our study. I'm going to
say it again. But let yourself hear what
that actually means. This book follows
the good news of Jesus, the proclamation
that Jesus is God's Messiah. Four
separate accounts of Jesus life,
ministry, death, and resurrection. Four
narratives announcing without apology
that God came near to redeem and
preserve for himself a people.
That intersects who we are today and
what we're doing.
If you're one who who thinks, you know,
all this talk about evangelism, I want
to do more. Anyone?
And you're thinking, I just don't think
I've got it in me to do it. Can I share
something with you?
The apostle said, I'm not ashamed of the
gospel, for it is the power of God unto
salvation to everyone who believes.
Not I'm the power. Not how I package it
is the power. Not my ability to explain
it is the power. He said the gospel is
the power. Can you hear me? The power is
in God's word.
That's not a small thing to know. The
power is in God's word. In fact, the
very best thing that I can do that you
can do is get people to connect with
God's word and then we get out of the
way.
The more we try to help, sometimes the
more we're in the way. Can you see that?
Maybe you've even experienced it. I
have.
Trying to help somebody get their life
cleaned up to bring them to Jesus makes
no sense at all. Can you hear me on
that? If they have not admitted that
Jesus is Lord and Christ, the first part
of that's important, that he is Lord.
Why in the world would you expect them
to hear any of the rest of what he has
to say in scripture? They have to first
admit that he is Lord in Christ. to want
to hear any of the rest of it. Can you
hear me on this? Connect people with the
word. Can you imagine how much more
success we might have if our entire
approach was not, "Hey, come to church
with me." If our entire approach was
not, "Hey, would you like to study the
Bible with me?" But instead it was,
"Hey, would you like to read the Bible
with me? I'm trying to be a daily Bible
reader. Would you like to read it with
me?
Well, I don't know. What are you going
to try to do? Read the Bible.
And if somebody were to agree to do that
with me, what would I read? What do you
think the first thing I would I would
read is? Anybody?
Gospel.
I'm going to read a gospel account. Why?
Because that heralds that he is both
Lord and Christ. Shows it in all of its
glory and splendor. shows that from the
foundation of the world, God sent his
one and only son to redeem even me. And
I'm going to follow it up with a book of
Acts. Why? Because it's the continuation
of the story. How did they become
Christians? Where does the church fit
into all this? I don't have to explain
it. I can read it. Do you know why I can
explain it? Cuz I've read it.
Can y'all hear me on this? We make this
so so complicated and it's not. Let the
word do its work. The Bible says my word
is not going to be empty. That God's
word is going to do its work. Whose
time?
His time.
I will tell you I have this has really
gotten clear in my mind the last few
weeks. I have preached and I have taught
for decades. God is in control. Is that
any real revelation to any of you? Like
you know that and believe that. Is that
right? God is in control. You believe
that?
Whose timing? God's timing. Whose
church? His church, right? Whose deal is
this? His. Whose purpose? His. Whose
glory? His.
But not until I got in this particular
place, in this particular role, did it
get right in my lap, poke me in the
chest, and make me realize
I'm not in control at all.
I have tried to control timing. I have
tried to control people. I have tried to
and even if you think I'm just doing it
by nudging or encouraging or challenging
my job, your job, share the word. Let
God do his work.
That's it. Does that take some of the
stress off?
Let's continue. Verse number two.
After he through the Holy Spirit had
given commandments to the apostles whom
he had chosen, to whom he also presented
himself alive after his suffering by
many infallible proofs. Don't miss that.
Jesus presented himself alive,
resurrected from the dead to his
apostles.
This appears in another place. 1
Corinthians chapter 15. You got your
Bibles? Let's go there. 1 Corinthians
15, beginning in verse number three.
I delivered to you first of all that
which also I received, that Christ died
for our sins according to the
scriptures. That he was buried and that
he rose again the third day according to
the scriptures. And that he was seen.
Don't miss this, folks. He was seen
resurrected. He was seen by Cphus, then
by the 12. After that, he was seen by
over 500 brethren at once, of whom the
greater part remained to the present,
but some have fallen asleep. After that,
he was seen by James, then by all the
apostles. Then last of all, he was seen
by me also, as by one born out of due
time. The gospel is not just the death
and burial of Jesus. It is the death,
burial, and resurrection of Jesus. If he
is not risen, then our faith is vain. We
are still in our sins.
But because he is risen, praise the
Lord, he is both Lord and Christ. So
don't miss that. Uh verse three, I want
to capture the end of verse three and
then I want to grab verse 9. Yes, I'm
doing this on purpose. Being seen by
them during 40 days and speaking of the
things pertaining to the kingdom of God.
Verse nine. Now when he had spoken these
things while they watched, he was taken
up and a cloud received him out of their
sight. So how long, going back to verse
three, it's right in the text. This is
open book. I'm not trying to trip you
up. It's right there. How long did he
spend with his apostles after he rose
from the dead?
40 days. And what did they talk about
during that 40 days?
The kingdom.
What was arguably then the most
important thing to talk about?
The kingdom.
What is the most important thing for you
and for me and anyone anybody else who
wants to be a disciple of Jesus to get
figured out? The kingdom. Kingdom
living.
Naturally, they wanted to know more. He
spent 40 days with them speaking of the
things pertaining to the kingdom and
they wanted to know more. Don't you?
When you learn something and it's
impressive, don't you want to know more?
And so they wanted to know more. Take a
look at verse number six. When they had
come together, they asked him, saying,
"Lord, will you at this time restore the
kingdom to Israel?" What would they want
to know? It wasn't about if, it's when.
So now. And if not now, when? I want you
to notice that he did not correct them
for asking,
but he reminded them that the father's
promise is on the father's time. I know
I mentioned this already, but I really
want you to hear this. Verse number
seven, it is not for you to know times
or seasons which the father has put in
his own authority.
Does that have applicability more
broadly than just to that particular
question?
Yes.
It's God's business when and how he does
what he does. Amen.
Keep your place here. Go take a look at
Psalm 37.
Verse number one.
Do not fret
because of evildoers.
Anybody besides me guilty of this?
People doing stuff they shouldn't do?
And I begin to get anxious about it.
And over time, I'm picking the mess out
of my thumbs because of stress and
nerves and anxiety.
And the Bible says just as clear as a
bell, "Do not fret because of evildoers,
nor be envious of the workers of
iniquity.
For they shall soon be cut down like the
grass and wither as the green herb." And
if you wonder like I wonder, so when is
soon?
It's not for me to know. Soon.
But it's for me not to fret. Instead,
what should I do? Keep reading. Trust in
the Lord and do good. Dwell in the land
and feed on his faithfulness. Delight
yourself also in the Lord and he shall
give you the desires of your heart. Read
that verse again. Verse four. Delight
yourself also in the Lord and he shall
give you the desires of your heart. You
understand that's not a blank check.
Let me tell you, be really clear what
it's not saying. Delight yourself in the
Lord and he'll give you whatever in the
world you want. It doesn't say that.
Delight yourself in the Lord and he'll
give you what?
The desires of your heart. If you
delight yourself in the Lord, who is the
desire of your heart?
He is. Do you see it now? Delight in
him. He will give himself to you. Can
you see it? Can you hear it?
Commit your way to the Lord. Trust also
in him, and he shall bring it to pass.
He shall bring forth your righteousness
as the light and your justice as the
noon day. Get ready. Verse seven is
going to get personal. Rest in the Lord,
and wait patiently for him. Do not fret
because of him who prospers in his way,
because of the man who brings wicked
schemes to pass. Cease from anger.
Forsake wrath. Do not fret. It only
causes harm. For evildoers shall be cut
off. But those who wait on the Lord,
they shall inherit the earth. For yet a
little while, and the wicked shall be no
more. Indeed, you'll look carefully for
his place, but it shall be no more. But
the meek shall inherit the earth, and
shall delight themselves in the
abundance of peace.
Read the rest of it when you've got
time. It's almost like God knew that we
needed to hear this. It's almost like he
knows that we will get ourselves worked
up thinking that even though we know
he's in control, he needs a little help
here and there, but he doesn't need my
help and he doesn't need your help.
He has created a path for us to walk.
And what he needs for you to do is make
the choice. Walk it or don't.
Verse number four. Uh, back to Acts
chapter 1, sorry. Acts chapter 1 verse4.
Being assembled together with them, he
commanded them not to depart from
Jerusalem, but to wait for the promise
of the father, which he said, you have
heard from me. So, he was taken up,
ascended to the father's right hand to
glory. And in leaving, he left
instructions like we all do. Every time
I think about this, I think about the
same thing. I think about when I was in
uh school and my parents would go away
and leave my sister and me behind. And
we'd get instructions. Don't forget to
take out the trash. Don't forget to turn
the lights off if you're not in the
room. And don't forget your sister when
you go.
You got to have instructions.
Well, he gave them instructions. What
did he tell them? Don't go anywhere.
Stay in Jerusalem and wait. Wait for
what? Wait for the promise of the father
to be fulfilled. What promise? The
promise that you already heard from me
that you'll be baptized with God's holy
spirit. Verse number five. For the power
that's going to accompany that. Verse
number eight. So that you can be my
witnesses. So that you can carry the
gospel of the kingdom from here to the
entire world.
Folks, this is a pretty big deal and
essential. Really think about this. as
the apostles were experiencing this in
real time. It was only a month ago that
they had all forsaken him.
They needed God to do something big.
They needed to be reminded of what they
had been taught. They needed to be
reminded of what they had witnessed.
They needed to be led. They needed to be
guided.
They would be the beginning of
generations to come carrying forward the
message of God's everlasting kingdom.
And now you and I by extension are
similarly generations to come carrying
forward the message of God's everlasting
kingdom. So ultimately this is our
story. The reason we're here this
morning is because of what happened in
Acts.
It's a heritage that goes back some
2,000 years, but really it goes back
farther.
It goes back from before the foundation
of the world.
And that's our story.
Acts is to help us see what we should
be, who we should be.
This is a series that is intended to
really focus on God's purpose, his
eternal purpose, the church, the bride
of Christ, the body of Christ, the
inbreaking of God's everlasting kingdom.
What does kingdom rule look like? Well,
for us, we don't live under that in our
government. What's our government?
Our government is a republic, right?
It's got flavors of democracy, but it's
not a full democracy. But even a
republic, is that what they lived under?
Was was Rome a republic?
Rome was what?
It was a kingdom. And who was who was
Lord? Caesar. In fact, the great
confession that Jesus is Lord stood in
stark contrast to what everybody else
was proclaiming, which was Caesar is
Lord. So when Christians confess Jesus
is Lord, you and I don't think a lot of
that, but for them
that was treason.
But to not make that confession is
treason an order of magnitude higher.
Can you see it?
We today as Christians are not part of a
republic.
That's our culture. And by the way, that
influences a lot. We've been
democratized a lot. And we tend to
smuggle that in and want that to apply
to church things. But the church is a
kingdom. God's kingdom. It is not a
democracy. It is not a republic. It is a
theocracy. And who's the king? Jesus
himself.
You don't get a vote. I don't get a
vote. It's not about how I think it
should be worked out or how you should
be worked out. He worked it out. And
what he says goes. And if you don't want
to be a part of that, he's allowed you
to make that choice.
But if you're in his kingdom,
you follow the Lord.
Some people come to church asking only
how this will help them.
And in that sense, church can
it can be distilled into little more
than cheap therapy,
a safe way to get advice and to be
encouraged.
The really great sermons focus on how to
improve our lives, our marriages, our
parenting skills, what have you. How to
replace our vices with virtues, how to
forgive, how to control our tempers, how
to be a better friend, and so on.
But people can come and listen and
become better people without ever making
a real commitment to God,
without ever making Jesus Lord of their
own lives.
Acts is intended to bring us face to
face with God's mission.
God's reason for why Jesus died.
God's reason for why his disciples were
willing to be imprisoned and die.
Am I willing to give that much
to die for the cause of Christ?
I'm not talking about figuratively.
That's important, too. let everyone deny
himself, take up his cross. Even though
we talk about that figuratively a lot,
you know, my mother-in-law is coming to
visit. I've got a cross to bear. That's
not what they heard.
When they heard about bearing a cross,
that meant to the death. And so, the
notion of giving my life, denying
himself, giving up my life to have the
life that he gives me. That's what was
intended.
But am I really willing to give my life
to lay my physical life down for the
cause of Christ?
Are you
Luke? Was
you may not realize it, but you should.
Luke is not just the author, not some
random historian who wanted to put this
all together for some guy named
Theophilos. Luke was there.
Take a look at at Acts chapter 16 and
we'll get there and spend more time but
take a look in Acts chapter 16 beginning
in verse number 10.
Now after he had seen the vision
immediately we sought to go to Macedonia
concluding that the Lord had called us
to preach the gospel to them. Did you
catch it
in that text right there? Who was among
them? Luke.
And you're going to read more of that in
chapter 20. You're going to read more in
chapter 21, more in 27 and 28. Luke was
there. He's not just some random
historian. He was there.
Act is intended to force us to consider
our own purposes
within God's greater purpose.
People seem today to want to talk about
God has a plan for you.
I don't know how detailed of a plan he
has for me biblically. That's hard to
support. I think he's given me talent.
It's hard to deny that there's no plan
in that. But what can I say definitively
about it? Not much. God's given me
passion.
He's given me an interest in things.
So, in some sense, he's called me with
talent and with passion to something.
But what exactly is that? I don't know.
I don't see anything in scripture that
tells me definitively what that should
look like. But I tell you what I do see
in scripture. He has a purpose for all
of us to walk in the footsteps of Jesus.
He has a path for all of us to enter
where we value his bride, his body, more
than we value ourselves.
It's a purpose within a greater purpose
that more than me becoming great at my
my avocation
that I become great in the kingdom by
becoming least and servant of all
that I share the good news with everyone
I can before it's too late.
That's my purpose. That's your purpose
because that's our purpose. The church
was never intended as it's revealed in
scripture. It is it was never intended
to be a a group of saved souls who come
together once or twice a week to pat
ourselves on the back remark how how
fine of fellows we are how wonderful we
are while the world goes off on its way
and self-destructs
the church revealed in scripture is a
vehicle through which the gospel would
be preached and men could be saved like
I've been saved like you've been saved
can I say this very very plainly I'm
asking your permission. I'm gonna say it
plainly.
Some of you need to be converted to
Christ.
For some of you, you've been coming for
a long, long time. And that statement is
still true.
You've never been really converted to
him.
But Acts is a story of conversions.
It shows the earliest proclamation of
Jesus story. It shows people responding
to that story and it shows lives that
were forever changed.
It pictures joy and sacrifice mingled
together in God's service.
So if you're someone who wants to be
fully involved in God's purposes, if
you're someone who wants to be a true
disciple of Jesus,
then let me encourage you as I am going
to to let this study of Acts get under
your skin.
Let the stories of the first converts,
the stories of the first disciples move
you to conversion
and true disciplehip.
That's what it's about.
Because ultimately, our story, it's not
really ours, it's his.
