So Daniel reveals uh the coming Messiah
as Lord and his dominion is eternal.
That's what we just read a moment ago
that Jesus would be sovereign king of
all the earth and heaven and um and
Daniel's background is interesting just
to give you a few things before we get
too far along into this that it's kind
of a dual book. Uh the first part of the
book is more historical narratives. uh
first six chapters predominantly
historical narratives and then uh the
rest of the book the last six chapters
are primarily apocalyptic visions and uh
it is to display uh God's coming Messiah
particularly more than anything else
that's the message that is trying to be
displayed through the rest of the book
now conservative scholars tell us that
this is about the exile into Babylon uh
in the 6th century BC and it's about a
Jewish nobleman or among the noble of
Jerusalem. So maybe someone who could
even potentially have been in line for
the throne, Daniel. But he's now been
exiled by the king Nebuchadnezzar, who
is the most powerful man in the world at
the time and pretty much could have
ruled the world if he wanted to. He came
the closest to it at that moment. and uh
he had brought in now some of the exiles
because he was trying to take the uh
best of the best to do things for him
and he had done that throughout his
kingdom and Babylon had done something
that had never really been done too much
before this about moving people around
like that and it was working quite well
for them. Liberal scholars on the other
hand uh they believe that the book was
not finished until the Makabian era
which is the 2 century BC and they
believe that ended with the time of
Antiochus uh the fourth Epiphanies uh
which is terrible to call him that but
that's that's what he liked to be
called. His name by people who hated him
was Epanes which means the mad man.
Epiphanies means uh God manifest. So,
it's probably not appropriate to even
use that name for him, but he he only
reigned about 10 years from 175 to 164,
but a part of the book is about him and
uh even though it doesn't name him, he's
part of the book. And uh he becomes a
metaphor for something later that we'll
talk about. Uh basically um uh the
events of this book kind of break down
like this. So, uh, well, I've already
covered this. Sorry, I wanted to get to
this. It breaks down like this. Uh, that
Daniel is first the prisoner. That's
Daniel chapter 1. And as royalty, uh, he
was kind of being treated like royalty
or at least from royal lineage. And so,
uh, they were trying to give him the
best they had, but it wasn't kosher. It
wasn't appropriate food. And he didn't
want to eat it. It violated his
conscience. Uh, and so he he wanted to
reject that. So that's what we see. This
begins somewhere around 605 or 604 BC
and it lasts about 67 years the book. It
appears that the book uh culminates
about 67 68 years later. Then we see
Daniel is the interpreter kind of shifts
chapters 2 3 4 5 and 6. Uh there's a lot
of interpreting going on. Uh
Nebuchadnezzar in chapter 2 has a dream
that apparently he claims he doesn't
even remember the dream but has left him
very disturbed and he wants all of his
magicians really smart people to uh
first tell him what the dream is and
then tell him what the dream means. And
they said well that's never been done
before. If you'll tell us the dream then
you know we can tell you the
interpretation of the dream. He says no
if you don't have the skill to tell me
what the dream is then you don't have m
this power anyway and therefore you're
all going to be killed. and he starts
killing them all and and Daniel manages
to get uh a hold of them and and get to
ask him to just give me a little time
and and I'll approach God and we'll get
the dream and everything. And so he does
and uh this happens around 602 BC we
think. And then Nebuchadnezzar erects as
a result of this dream, he erects a
golden image because in that dream
there's a golden image and it looks like
that's exactly the reason he does what
happens in chapter 3. But either way, he
uh he he's um he's impressed by what
he's able to tell him about how
important he's going to be and how the
other kingdoms following him are going
to be culminating with the Roman Empire,
which they didn't know obviously, but
but we know
uh chapter 3, Nebuchadnezzar's golden
image is erected and as a result, he
wants everybody to worship it. We don't
know how frequent these uh musical
events happened, but whenever this
musical event happened, everybody was
supposed to turn toward the the idol of
this golden image and bow and pray to
it. Uh we know it happened more than
once. We just don't know how many times
it was happening. Might have been every
day. May have been every few hours. I
don't know. But uh as you know, uh
Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego did not
bow. and as a result he threw them into
the uh fiery furnace but of course they
didn't die. So that's kind of the events
of chapter 3. And then chapter 4 gets
into Daniel 4 interpreting
Nebuchadnezzar's dream of the tree. Now
he has another dream and in this dream
is this giant tree that fills the whole
earth and Daniel nobody can explain to
him what the dream is about and Daniel
has to go to the Lord find out what the
dream's about. But the dreams basically
about him and how he was going to in a
moment of pride be cut down and uh for
seven periods and I don't know what the
seven periods are. They may have been
weeks or days or or months. It doesn't
explain but these seven periods he would
be crazy and he had a weird disease. I
don't know if you know that that's a
real thing but that is a real thing.
Weir you can be a weird anything. Uh,
you've per probably heard it pronounced
where werewolf, but we is the proper
pronunciation of it. You can be a weird
rabbit. You can wear be a weird bird.
You can be a weird cat. You can be a
weird wolf. You can be a weird anything.
You think you are the thing. You
beginhave like that. You eat the things
the thing. And that's a real sickness,
by the way. It's a real mental illness.
So, uh, by the way, I know y'all heard a
lot of weird stuff and 
weird stuff didn't start this last few
years. It's been going on a long time.
People are have always been a little
weird. Uh, so that's chapter 4, it
happens to him and as a result, we'll
read some of the scriptures about that
in a minute. Then chapter five is the
handwriting on the wall. Beltazzer is
now the king. Nebuchadnezzar is gone.
So, we're talking down the line a little
ways as you know. and and he gets the
handwriting on the wall because he has a
party and he uses the stuff that was
taken out of the temple to celebrate
with his wine and all of that sort of
thing. And he offers offerings to the
gods that he served and as a result many
many taco is written on the wall by hand
and nobody there and nobody knows how to
interpret that. Daniel's able to
interpret that and it basically means
that this particular king had been
weighed and found wanting and his
kingdom was going to end and it ended
that very night and that's actually
recorded in history. So it's not a
makebelieve story. Chapter 5 uh in this
feast it's around 539 BC not around. We
we actually know it's 539 BC when those
events happen. Then Daniel in the lion's
den is chapter 6. Now what's interesting
about that is these things are not in
chronological order. So in the sense of
they're really close together and
everything happened. All the prophecies
happened at the same time. This is very
late. We know that this happened around
uh well 80 years uh old is what we
believe Daniel was at this time. And so
when the lions, you've seen all the
pictures of lion's den and it's a lot of
them have a little boy Daniel in the
lion's but it's not it's a elderly man.
And then uh the next section is Daniel
is the seer and that's chapter 7 through
12 and we go through a series of
visions. Uh the four beast is the first
chapter 7. It's a vision. This is
happens in 556 BC. And then there's the
vision of the ram and the hegoat which
is basically about Greece some of their
history. That's Daniel chapter 8. Uh
vision of the ram and the hegoat. That's
in 554 BC. And then there's the vision
and this is the most important one.
Vision of 70 weeks. This is Daniel
chapter 9. This is particularly about
the Messiah. Jesus makes reference to
it. The New Testament makes reference to
it. It's so accurate. It's no specific
about when the Messiah would come that I
heard a Jew talking the other day who no
longer is a Jew. He now believes in
Christ because he actually read this
passage and he became convinced of what
it says here and he decided it had to be
the Messiah that came and it couldn't
have come any other time. And so he
believed the prophecy. Then there's the
vision of Israel's future and the end.
That's chapters 10, 11, and 12. And uh
we'll look at that a little bit and show
you a few things from that. Basically,
we're going to look at five messages
though about our central theme, which is
the Lord's dominion is eternal, which is
the theme that keeps being taught really
through the book. So, we're going to do
that. The first one is the Lord is
sovereign and rules over homeopathy. So,
so basically homeopathy, most of you
probably know what that is. Somebody's
inviting me to church there. All right.
is basically what the Jews believe, a
lot of you believe this, and that is
that God's foods law in general suggests
a wholesome, balanced diet, fresh foods,
uh, eating fresh whole foods, seasonal
vegetables, fruits, and lean proteins,
and drinking plenty of pure water will
make you healthier. Uh, I don't know if
that always works. I doubt it does
because I suspect some people have
inborn problems that are going to have
no matter what you do. You could
exercise every day and eat right and die
by a car running over you. I mean, you
just don't know what's going to happen.
Nobody knows anything. But there's some
interesting things that are stated in
Daniel chapter 1 that I want to read. If
you if you got your Bibles open, we're
going to spot read a little bit. So,
Daniel chapter 1, I'm going to start in
verse 8. But Daniel purposed in his
heart that he would not defile himself
with a portion of the king's delicacies,
nor with the wine which he drank. Now,
they thought this was the best food you
could possibly eat because it tasted
good and they loved it. Verse 10. And
the chief of the unic said to Daniel, "I
fear my lord, the king who has appointed
your food and drink." So, he says, "I
know he's trying to keep you healthy and
make you really fit. I don't want to
change this." Uh, but he finally agrees
to it. Verse 12 says, "Please test your
servants for 10 days and let them give
us vegetables to eat and water to
drink." Verse 13, uh, "Then let our
appearance be examined." They did all
this. Uh verse 14. So he consented with
him in this matter and tested them 10
days. Verse 15. And at the end of 10
days, their features appeared better and
fatter in flesh than all the younger men
who ate the portion of the king's
delicacies. I don't know why that's
true, but it is true. Verse 17. As for
these four young men, God gave them
knowledge and skill and all literature
and wisdom, and Daniel had understanding
and all visions and dreams. And then
verse 19, then the king interviewed
them. So the king Nebuchadnezzar must
have been a pretty smart guy. And among
them all uh uh none was found like
Daniel, Haniah, Michel, and Azariah,
which is Shadrach, Meshach, and
Abednego. Uh therefore they serve before
the king. Verse 20 says, "And all the
matters of wisdom and understanding
about which the king examined them, he
found them 10 times better than all." So
that suggests that the king was a pretty
smart guy himself. So, but my point is
is the Lord whether whether the food,
this is my point, whether the food per
se was exactly what made them better or
not, he was being honored for doing what
God had called them to do in uh eating
the food that was acceptable and kosher.
And so, God honored that. I believe God
is sovereign over what we eat from that
perspective. The second thing I want you
to see is that the Lord is sovereign and
rules over honesty. One of the things
that needs to be dealt with is what's
happening in this text. And God honesty
has to do with veracity, either human or
God. But I I wanted to focus on God's
veracity. And that is he's truthful in
all things. He cannot lie. He does not
lie. Titus 1:2. He cannot lie. Hebrews 6
and verse 18. He only tells the truth.
John 17:17. 1 John 4:6. and he poses all
liars and deceivers, particularly the
devil himself who lies. Like I said, the
point is, and the reason I need to say
these things is right now, I don't know,
on the internet, I'm hearing every kind
of crazy thing I can imagine in my life.
I have never heard so much crazy stuff
going on on the internet right now. If
you're believing half of that stuff, you
ought to be ashamed. Don't believe
hardly anything they're telling you. Let
me tell you what I know to be true. The
Bible is true in every word of it. Every
word of the Bible is true. and every
man, let God be true and every man a
liar for that perspective. Daniel
chapter 2, I want to focus on a couple
of little things here. Pick up Daniel
chapter 2, which is where we are on the
subject of honesty. Verse one. Now in
the second year of Nebuchadnezzar,
Nebuchadnezzar had dreams and his spirit
was so troubled that he sleep left him.
And we find out in verse three what I
was talking about a minute ago. I had a
dream and my spirit was anxious to know
the dream. I don't know what the dream
was. He says in verse four, then the
Calaldian spoke to the king in Aramaic,
"Oh king, live forever. Tell your
servants the dream and we will give you
the interpretation. In verse 5, the king
answered and said to the Calaldanss, "My
decision is firm. If you do not make
known the dream to me, and its
interpretation, you shall be cut into
pieces." He's calling them into account
about being honest. If you really have
these powers that you claim that you
have, then God could reveal this to you
and you could know. And that's exactly
what happens with David. I won't go
through and read all of that again
because I explained it a moment ago, but
I've given you references that you can
look it up. particularly Daniel chapter
2 and then 19-22
and finally he does give uh that wisdom
and here's the point I just want to read
basically what it says in verse 21-22
and he this is now Daniel talking about
God revealing this to him and he says he
changes the times and the seasons he
removes kings and raises up kings
something to remember when you think
that we're the ones deciding who leads
our
Just remember that you're not deciding
it. Well, I voted. You're not deciding
it.
Just stay with me. And he changes the
times and the seasons. He removes kings
and raises up kings. He gives wisdom to
the wives and knowledge to those who
have understanding. He reveals deep and
secret things. He knows what is in the
darkness and light dwells with him. God
is honest and God knows everything.
Listen to God. Don't listen to what
everybody else says. Honesty. Next one
is hedgeimony or hegeimmony. It's
probably a better way of saying it.
Basically, this is where political,
economic, or cultural dominance of one
person or a group of people over others.
It's basically to force and coers other
people to do something that happens all
the time in politics. And v people value
their beliefs and they want to make
their beliefs the norm for everybody.
Listen to the text. So you see that God
is over even that. When you think that
God that these these cultural ideas can
be pressed down on us and God will
knuckle under. That's not the way it
will happen. Daniel 4:32.
And they shall drive you from men and
your dwelling shall be with the beast of
the field. Remember this. I told you
Nebuchadnezzar that was the dream. They
shall make you eat grass like oxen, and
seven times shall pass over you. I don't
know what the seven times are. Until you
know that the Most High rules in the
kingdom of men and gives it to whomever
he chooses. Listen to that. Until you
know that the Most High rules in the
kingdom of men and gives it to whomever
he chooses. Careful what you say. Verse
33. That very hour the word was
fulfilled concerning Nebuchadnezzar. He
was driven from men and ate grass like
oxen. Verse 34. And at the end of the
time, I Nebuchadnezzar lifted my eyes to
heaven and my understanding returned to
me. And then it says, "For his
dominion," he's talking about God now.
He says, "I realize that I'm going to
honor him who lives forever, for his
dominion is an everlasting dominion, and
his kingdom is from generation to
generation." Verse 35, all the
inhabitants of the earth are reputed as
nothing, but he does according to his
will in the army of heaven. and among
the inhabitants of earth. No one can
restrain his hand or say to him, "What
have you done?" Verse 36, "At the same
time, my reason returned to me, and for
the glory of my kingdom and my honor and
my splendor returned." So God is over
Nebuchadnezzar. Nebuchadnezzar became
king until he went too far. God took him
out and then Nebuchadnezzar's
understanding returned and God put him
back in. That's the way it works. God is
in control. So when we think we know
what will happen and we're going to
organize and we're going to protest
whatever we're going to do. We're going
to make this country into what we think
we're going to make it into. Nope.
Not going to happen. You can think that
all you want, but God's in control. The
Lord is sovereign and rules over
hostility. So when people want to behave
in a hostile way, so actual physical
violent acts, particularly persecution
against Christian, I hear a lot of
people talk about that. You know about,
oh, is there going to be another
persecution? Maybe, maybe not. But even
if there is, God is over even that and
can control that. So that's persecuting,
attacking, fighting, even a military
clash where they might shoot, bomb,
behead, invade churches, whatever. You
think that God has lost control of
something like that would happen. People
are scared to death that that would be
what would happen. No, my friend, that
will never happen. I don't mean the
events won't ever happen. I mean that
God will never lose control no matter
what happens. Even in the middle of
that, even if that happened. How do you
know that? It's already happened. God
didn't lose control when it happened
before, did he? It's already happened.
In fact, all that will live godly in
Christ Jesus shall suffer persecution. I
think it says that. By the way,
persecution doesn't mean being beaten.
It just means somebody's out to get you.
Listen to what Daniel 7 21- 27 says. I
was watching. And the same horn was
making war against the saints and
prevailing against them until the
ancient of days came and a judgment was
made in favor of the saints. Wait a
second. You were telling me that the bad
guy was winning. That's exactly what
he's telling here. The bad guy was
winning and killing saints. That's the
prophecy. And the time came for the
saints to possess the kingdom. But that
was going to come to an end. That's
Daniel chapter 7, part of what we were
reading a moment ago when it was read in
front of you. Listen to verse 25. Same
chapter. He shall speak pompous words
against the most high, shall persecute
the saints of the most high, and shall
intend to change times and laws. Does
that sound familiar? Then the saints
shall be given into his hand. What? Even
the saints are going to be in his hand
for a time, times, and a half time. That
normally means about three and a half
years, but I don't know if that's what
it means right here. Verse 30 27. Then
the kingdom and dominion and the
greatness of the kingdoms under the
whole heaven shall be given to the
people, the saints of the most high.
Wait a second. So there will be a time
when the saints are treated as the bad
guys and then there'll be a time when
the saints will be treated as the good
guys. Yeah, that's exactly what it says.
And who's in that? Who's in control of
that? The sovereign Lord. It's exactly.
Even in the middle of hostilities
against Christians. Yes.
Absolutely. If you don't like it, can't
do nothing about it. I'm telling you,
God is overall. Number next.
The Lord is sovereign and rules over
history. That's a big message of this
whole book. And I'm going to read
several scriptures. You see them down
there below you. And it's an important
thing to get. The Latin word that
history comes from historia literally
means inquiry. So history, if you take
it for what it literally means, it means
to inquire into what happened. That's
all it means. To inquire into what
happened, looking at the documents and
trying to figure out what occurred.
Chapters 8 through 12 are really a lot
of history for Israel. And some of it
has never happened.
That's right. Some of what's in Daniel
has never happened. You'll see it in a
minute if you don't already know that.
But one of the best things that's
happened is Daniel chapter nine. I want
to read through it and then just point
out a couple of things. Daniel chapter
nine. This is the passage you ought to
memorize if you know a Jewish person and
you ever want to have a really good
Bible study with them. Daniel chapter 9
24- 27 is a great text. 70 weeks are
determined for your people and for your
holy city. These are years by the way to
finish the transgression. Listen to what
it's going to happen in that time.
finish the transgression,
make an end of sin, to make
reconciliation for iniquity, to bring in
everlasting righteousness,
to seal up the vision of the prophecy,
and to anoint the most holy. All of that
was going to happen in 490 years,
okay? from the time this happened which
by the way has to be the case that the
Messiah came otherwise that didn't
happen. So if it's true it happened and
the Messiah came in that time period.
Verse 25. Now therefore I mean know
therefore and understand that from the
going forth of command to restore and to
build Jerusalem
until Messiah the prince that is Jesus
there shall be 7 weeks and 62 weeks. So
you add those two together, those are
the number of years. Each day of the
week is counted as a year. The street
shall be built again and the wall even
in troublesome times. You can read that
in Nehemiah and Ezra. 26. And after the
62 weeks, Messiah, no question, this is
the anointed of God. Messiah shall be
cut off. That means Messiah was no
longer going to be here.
Which means for anybody that's paying
attention is Messiah had to come in that
time period. He's not coming in 2000. He
had to come in that time period or this
is not true because he was going to be
cut off and he's not here now that way
but not for himself. He'd be cut off but
it's not because of him. But and and the
people of the prince who is to come now
we're talking about Rome uh Titus
particularly shall destroy the city and
the sanctuary. We all know that
occurred. You can look at pictures and
see it tonight. The end of it shall be
with a flood until the end of the war.
Desolations are determined. This is the
reference that uh Jesus makes reference
to in Matthew and verse 27. Then he
shall confirm a covenant with many for
one week, but in the middle of the week
he shall bring an end to the sacrifice
and offering and on the wing of
abomination,
abomination of desolation shall be one
who makes desolate even until the
consummation which is determined is
poured out on the desolate. That's the
destruction of Jerusalem and the fact
that uh the whole temple and the system
was gone. Now that's done. We know
that's true. Daniel chapter 11, I'll
just spot read here again. Daniel
chapter 11. This is an interesting thing
because there's a problem with it.
Daniel 11:36.
Then the king shall do according to his
own will. He shall exalt and magnify
himself above every god and shall speak
blasphemies against the god of gods and
shall prosper till the wrath has been
accomplished for what has been
determined shall be done. That's
Antioch's epiphanies in history. He's
one of the cucid kings that come after
uh Alexander the Great. Verse 37, all
these things actually happen. Uh he
shall regard neither the god of his
fathers nor the desire of women nor
regard any god for he shall exalt
himself above them all. Uh but in their
place he shall honor a god of fortresses
and a god which his fathers did not
know. So and then it says he shall honor
with gold and silver with precious
stones and pleasant things. Thus he
shall act against the strong fortresses
with a foreign god which he shall
accomplish and advance its glory and he
should cause them to rule over many and
divide the land for gain. All of that
happened Antiochus Epiphanies all of it.
What didn't happen as far as we can tell
from history is verse 40 onward. Verse
40. At the time of the end the king of
the south shall attack him and the king
of the north shall come against him like
a whirlwind. chariots, horses, and many
ships. And he shall enter the country
that overwhelm them and pass through. He
shall also enter the glorious land, and
many countries shall be overthrown, but
these shall escape from the hand of
Edom, Moab, and prominent people of
Amnan. He shall stretch out his hand
against the countries in the land of
Egypt shall not escape. He shall have
power over the treasures of gold and
silver, and over all the precious things
of Egypt. Also, the Libyans and the
Ethiopians shall follow at his heels.
Verse 44, but news from the east and the
north shall trouble him. Therefore, he
shall go out with great fury to destroy
and annihilate many. Verse 45, and he
shall plant the tents of his palace
between the seas and the glorious holy
mountain, and he shall come to his end,
and no one will help him. Now, you say,
well, why do you say that didn't happen?
Well, without me getting into the
history of it, those things didn't occur
that way. And he didn't end that way.
And then Daniel 12:es 1-3 didn't happen.
Daniel 12:1, "At that time Michael shall
stand up, the great prince who stands,
watch over the sons of your people, and
there shall be a time of trouble such as
never was since there was a nation even
to that time. And at that time your
people shall be delivered, everyone who
is found written in the book. And many
of those who sleep in the dust of the
earth shall awake, some to everlasting
life, some to shame and everlasting
contempt. And those who are wise shall
shine like the brightness of the
firmament, and those who return many to
righteousness like the stars forever and
ever. So most people then look at, well,
what really happened? We had Antioch's
Epiphanies, the guy who thought he was
God. That actually happened. There was a
real guy, and most of the stuff that's
in that whole prophecy happened just
exactly the way it said. But toward the
end, that's slightly different. As a
result, as a result, many believe this
is the reason Paul makes his argument in
2 Thessalonians 2 and verse four,
particularly about the son of predition,
uh, the man of sin that proclaims
himself to be God, that there is some
kind of physical thing or spiritual
thing that had not occurred as yet. And
that's the reason that's brought up.
It's a good argument, but I don't know.
Now, you got it. This is what we've
looked at. The only point I wanted to
show you here is that God is sovereign
over everything. We're talking about
food we eat.
I know some of you worried to death
about it.
He's sovereign over them.
Even if stuff is in our food that's bad,
he can make you healthy anyway. That's
right. He can do it. Honesty. Even if
everybody's up telling you, "Oh, don't
go to church anymore. Don't believe in
Jesus anymore. Don't worry about it.
He's Lord over honesty."
People who want to be in power,
hedgeimony, it's or he hgemony,
everybody wants to be in power. There's
all kinds of people vying for that
hostility. They start getting mean
against us. And you start thinking,
well, then if they're killing
Christians, well, it may not be true.
No.
In history, I don't know if I believe
the history. Um, and so many people
right now, I don't know how much of
y'all going around rabbit holes. There's
a bunch of folks trying to say our
history isn't true. Have you heard this
stuff?
How ridiculous.
Our history isn't true. Where were you?
I don't know. Less last uh I see I 69
years. I kind of know what happened in
the last 69 years. I don't know what
happened 70 years ago for sure, but I
know in the last 69 years I kind of kept
up with it.
Some folks just want to believe
anything. But what's the truth? It's
weird. Do I fully understand providence?
No, I do not. Do I fully understand
sovereignty? No, I do not. Do I fully
understand predestination? No, I do not.
Do I fully understand fornowledge? No, I
do not. Do I fully understand election?
No, I do not. Do I fully understand for
ordination? No, I do not. But I can
believe in all of them because I'm a
simple-minded individual. I'm not that
smart. And I only have to believe in an
infinite God who can work everything
out. And I don't have to figure it out.
That's where I'm at. I don't have to
figure it out. I believe in the book.
Amen. And God is sovereign over it all.
I read this the other day and I thought
this is an interesting story. It was in
our daily bread back in June of 1980.
Guy wrote the article. He said, "I I
told in my article how a Christian
providentially escaped death. An
unexpected delay in New York kept him
from catching flight 191 in Chicago,
which ended up crashing with 254 aboard.
The article brought this note from a
reader.
I just had to let you know about one of
God's great saints who ran to make
flight 191 and made it. His name was
Edward E. Elliot. He's a preacher uh
Presbyterian church in California. His
plane from uh Pennsylvania was late and
a friend who had accompanied him to
Chicago said he last saw him dashing
forward in the terminal to make his
connection.
As I read, now this is the man writing
the article again. He says, "As I read
about a preacher Elliot and his ministry
and the question I raised in that June
devotional challenged me with new
urgency," and this was the question he'd
asked. "Was divine providence operating
only in New York and not in Chicago?"
The answer is, "I don't know enough to
fill a thimble." There's the answer.
But that's not what the answer came
back.
Immediately the words of a correspondent
came in and this is what somebody wrote
him because he wrote that article.
At the time Elliott, that's the preacher
who did catch the plane. At the time,
Elliot
didn't know he was indeed running to
heaven. Mrs. Elliott and her four
married children comforted the entire
church, their Christian faith and
testimony in sorrow.
was most extraordinary. They didn't see
it that way.
You see, I think
something else has to happen in your
head instead of you thinking you're so
smart and you figured it all out.
Though he slay me. Yeah. Well, I trust
him.
Doesn't matter what I think about it.
Though he slay me.
Yeah. or will I trust him?
If you confess Christ is the risen Lord
and you kneel to him alone, you're
beginning to catch on to the very
concept of he's the sovereign Lord. He's
the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords.
And I don't know enough to fill a
thimble.
I think we want to trust him. And I
think we need to believe that God knows
exactly what he's doing when everything
goes wrong. Yes. Especially
when everything goes wrong. When
everything is terrible. Yes. Especially
when everything is terrible. Why would
you believe that? Because everything
else in here is 100% true.
100%. If you're here tonight, you
haven't given your life to the Lord
Jesus. This would be a good chance. You
need to start believing that he is the
King of Kings and Lord of Lords. He's
the risen Savior. If you'll confess
that, we'll baptize you. had that this
morning. Love to see that happen again
tonight.
