Give everybody just a minute to start to
to make their way
to their seats. I know we got out just a
little little late and Sean did I don't
see him, but he did a phenomenal job
with the introduction. So, um we're only
going to spend about half as long this
morning uh talking about the quarter
because he he covered most of it. Did a
phenomenal job.
All right. So, I want to um
first of all want to acknowledge several
of you guys have asked about my ankle uh
this morning and I appreciate you uh
checking in on me. I wish I had a really
cool story. We were at men's retreat
last week. Wish I could tell you that I
like crossed uh Giane and then dunked on
Harrison. Um, that would be a lie. Uh,
but uh I did I won't tell you exactly
what happened, but I did learn a really
important lesson uh this week that you
should not text and walk downstairs at
the same time. Uh, everybody says don't
text and drive. I think we need to learn
not to text and walk. So,
I do want to thank everyone for sticking
around this morning, especially I see
several of the guys who were here uh who
were with us last week at the men's
retreat. And I want to want to say thank
you to uh to you guys for sticking
around. Uh Rex made a joke about a
long-winded preacher last Sunday night.
Uh and I may or may not have taken
offense to that. uh Sunday morning uh at
men's retreat, I ended up actually
speaking for uh an hour and one minute.
And so uh I went way off my notes. I'm
going to promise not to do that this
morning or or this week. But I do just
want to clarify upfront that if I do
happen to go, you know, over 30 to to 45
minutes, I want to give you permission
to walk out. Uh just get up all of you
at once. Get up. I'll know that I'm
done. and we'll we'll start over uh the
next Sunday morning.
Uh I'm really excited for what the
impact ministry what we've prepared over
the this quarter. Uh and I want to get
into that in just a second. But what I
want to do first is I actually want to
thank our elders uh for allowing us to
uh do this. I've been working on this
and talking with brother Lou Henson for
several uh several months uh even before
you know he moved away. And so, uh,
obviously with him moving, we've had new
elders, shepherds join, uh, join and and
and, uh, step up, uh, to lead the
church. And so, I want to thank all of
you for for allowing us to continue, you
know, with this when several of you
weren't even included in the, uh, the
initial kind of conversations. And so,
this quarter, I I I struggle calling
this a workshop. Um, but what I want to
do this quarter is I want to look at at
the idea of everyday disciplehip.
And yes, this is going to be an
evangelistic kind of uh focus,
but but you'll see here in a minute that
I really think this comes from just us
being true, authentic disciples of
Jesus. Uh, I'm going to be very honest
with you. Some of you guys won't like
this. this at least my section. I don't
know about Rex and Keegan. They're
they're much smarter, you know, than I
am. I'm going to be honest with you.
This is not going to be very
theologically deep. Uh in fact, today I
think I only have one or two Bible
verses that we're even going to to look
at. Uh but I I do that for a reason
because I don't think our issues and
we'll talk about our struggles with
evangelism here in a minute. I don't
think our issues with evangelism come
from a lack of knowledge.
Right? We know what God has done for us
through Jesus.
We've all experienced that. So, it's not
a lack of knowledge is not the reason
why we struggle, you know, with our with
our evangelism. It's not a lack of of
programs or or methods. There are there
are all kinds all over the world today,
especially in the United States, for
ways to evangelize, for strategies and
techniques to evangelize. So, it's not a
lack of that. And so what I'm really
hoping to do with with this quarter and
and and it's a reason why we've got Rex
going through the resources that the
church has provided to us. I want to be
more practical. I want to be more
applicationbased
in how we view and perceive this idea of
evangelism. So I I'll tell you this is
not a class on preaching. If it was, I
obviously, you know, wouldn't be up
here. But I really want to cover a few
things especially in my five weeks in
this quarter.
This idea I want to get away from the
idea of of evangelism being a a program
or an event that we do.
I want us to start to think about
evangelism as just an overflow of our
everyday disciplehip.
I want us to look at living as disciples
intentionally
living as disciples of Jesus
authentically living our lives as
apprentices as followers of our Lord and
of our savior. And what I want to do
through that is I want to look at and
and come to a realization that how we
actually live our lives right impacts
affects the way that people view Jesus.
It doesn't just impact the way that they
view us. It impacts the way that they
actually view Jesus and their
receptivity to the message.
And then I hope to, you know, get to
this idea that each and every one of us
has influence in the kingdom, right?
Each and every one of us, uh, has been
blessed. We're going to talk about our
circle of influence here in a few
minutes, but each and every one of us
has been blessed with a circle of
influence. And so, what I hope to do is
encourage you and equip you to to use
that influence for the kingdom of God.
So, over the over the next five weeks,
what I want to look at, and I'm sure you
guys have are familiar with this, you've
heard of this, you've you've many of you
have probably studied it, you know, far
more than me. It goes by a couple
different things. Uh, friendship
evangelism, relationship evangelism. But
what I want to do is I want to look at
this idea of relational evangelism.
I want to focus on who we are and I want
to focus on how we relate to the people
around us. There's four traits. I'll
cover them, you know, at the end briefly
and then we're going to go into them
over the next four weeks. uh but I want
to talk about the the traits or the
qualities of a disciple that actually
make us influential.
And so we'll talk a little bit
credibility, visibility, accessibility,
and reliability.
And so I hope this this quarter I hope
that uh we're
it's going to help ordinary people just
like you and just like me. I was way too
nervous to get up here, you know, even
uh a year ago. And so I I hope that it
will help ordinary, you know, disciples
to recognize the real influence that we
have, the real impact that we can make
in the lives of the people around you,
right? You don't have to be a preacher
to evangelize.
You don't need to know all the answers
to reach the lost.
And so I hope that we'll feel more
equipped after this this quarter, more
comfortable, uh more encouraged because
through all of the study and even the
folks that I've talked with over the
last few years, you know, people care
more about your heart
than they do about your techniques.
People may care more about your presence
in their lives uh than they do about
your performance and spreading the good
news of Jesus. And so that's what I want
to come back to. That's where we're
headed for the next 13 weeks. Um I pray
that you'll you'll join us. But but the
reality is is that evangelism is
difficult uh for most of us. It's
difficult for me.
It's difficult and and and I think we
struggle with evangelism for several
reasons. I'm going to try not to to
spend all of my time here this morning,
but but there's several reasons that we
struggle with evangelism. Uh most of us
struggle with it out of fear, right? For
many, many years, that's where I lived.
I struggled uh with with sharing my
faith uh because I was afraid. I was
afraid of rejection. I was afraid of
awkwardness. I was afraid of potentially
damaging, you know, a relationship that
I might have, whether it be a work
relationship or even a relationship
within my family. Uh I was afraid of of
not knowing what to say.
I think several of us uh myself included
uh we struggle with evangelism because
we feel unqualified.
Uh we don't feel that we know enough to
actually go out and talk about Jesus. Uh
we feel unqualified in the fact that we
don't have all of the answers. I'm going
to be really honest with you. I love
these Q&amp;As we're doing on Sunday night.
It's super uh cool to hear. But the
majority of the people when you go and
talk to them about Jesus, they don't
care about dinosaurs,
right? I I can tell you I've never I've
had several conversations, especially
within the last two years, and we're not
talking about creation, and we're not
talking about evolution.
So, the reality is is that we do know
enough to actually go out and share our
faith and talk to people about Jesus.
Most people don't feel educated or
trained or equipped to do it. And that's
kind of where the idea for this quarter,
you know, came from. There was a Lifeway
study that I was reading. And it says
92% of Christians want to share their
faith. Uh but only 18% of that 92 uh
feel they've been equipped or trained to
do so.
And then one of the last reasons I feel
that we struggle with with evangelism
and and statistics uh support this idea
is is the reality is in America at least
I think we've outsourced the
responsibility of evangelism.
Right? We've put the the burden of
evangelism, the burden of reaching the
lost. We've put it on the preachers.
We've put it on the ministers and and
we've put it on maybe the deacons or or
whoever it is that that's running uh the
the evangelism ministry uh that they
might have at the church.
And as I said, statistics uh support
this idea. A Bara Group study says that
64% of believers
uh feel that it is their responsibility
to evangelize.
I don't know the exact number of of
statistics on how many Christians in the
world, but only 64% of them believe it
is their responsibility to go out and
talk about Jesus. A generation ago,
that same study revealed that 90% of
believers thought it was their
responsibility. And so, we're getting to
a place where we're outsourcing. We're
we're putting that burden on other
people. And I think it's one of the
reasons why we've not been very
successful at reaching the lost.
I'm not looking I'm not talking about
church numbers and attendance, right?
That's not what I'm what I'm looking at
here. I don't measure that. Um, you
know, I I look at KPIs and and
statistics all all day long at work.
That's not what I'm what I'm trying to
do here, right? But I'm just trying to
get us to to to realize that that that
burden that that uh necessity to go out
and share your faith is our
responsibility. It's not just Rex and
Keegan. It's not just our elders. It's
not just you know me now and and and uh
the impact ministry. There is there is a
responsibility uh for all of us. And so
I think these struggles come from
viewing evangelism as a presentation
rather than a relationship.
Uh I think we struggle these struggles
come from viewing uh evangelism as a
performance
rather than a lifestyle. And I want you
to think, I mean, how much more
comfortable would you feel uh
evangelizing? How much more comfortable
would you feel going out into the world
and sharing your faith if it wasn't
about a program or a method?
 If it wasn't about a
performance or an expertise?
What if what if evangelism simply just
overflowed and flowed out of who you
already are?
And evangelism just overflows from who
you already are but with the people that
you know
in your circle. And so that's what the
foundation of relational evangelism is.
Uh it's your disciplehip overflowing
into the relationships around you. This
isn't a sales pitch, right? This isn't
uh trying to close a deal. Relational
evangelism views this as my pursuit of
Jesus impacting others around me.
And so if I can ask you now, how much
more comfortable would you feel if
evangelism to you was just your pursuit
of Jesus, your disciplehip, your
apprenticeship of Jesus impacting those
around you? It's a lot easier to get
behind that and and sign up and want to
go do that,
right? relational evangelism. It brings
the presence of Jesus. It brings the
character of Jesus and it brings the
hope of Jesus into our everyday
interactions. Uh relational evangelism
is also long-term and patient.
It's it's going to happen through
through routines, through your rhythms,
through your conversations.
And as you see in in a lot of the New
Testament, it's going to happen around
meals, right? Everybody's got to eat.
Most people like to eat. Some of us like
to eat a lot. And if you invite me to go
eat, the majority reality is I'm going
to say yes. Even if my wife doesn't want
to go,
we're going to go eat.
And the majority of Americans are like
that. And so, it's a very simple way to
extend an an invitation to sit down over
a meal, break bread. You see throughout
the New Testament that Jesus did that
quite often.
uh relational evangelism is is a shared
life, not just shared information. I
love what Paul says in 1 uh
Thessalonians 2 uh he says uh verse 8
that he was delighted to share with the
Thessalonians the gospel of God, not
just the gospel of God, but their own
lives as well.
And then I've mentioned this a few
times, but relational evangelism is
going to use our natural circle of
influence. Every single one of us has
places that we go every day. Every
single one of us has uh people that we
know, that we frequent, that we talk to
quite often, right? And every single
Hey, thanks guys. That's cool.
Uh so so we all have people we already
know, places we already go. We already
have relationships. God has blessed us
with relationships with a circle of
influence. We'll go into that in just a
minute a little bit deeper. Right?
Relational evangelism is powerful
because it's not a technique. It's not a
method. It's not scripted. It's not
something that we memorize. Uh but but
whether it's not eventdriven,
right? We've got to look at this as
through the lens of everyday disciplehip
to Jesus.
And I think when when we do this in
authentic disciplehip,
I think the reality is is that people
can tell, right? People can see our
sincerity. People can see the compassion
that we have for them. When they can see
that, I I believe and and statistics
show this as well. I'll talk about it at
the end, but but statistics show that
when they see that out of us that they
actually respond to that message.
And and so relational evangelism, I
believe it's powerful uh because people
respond to people they trust.
Uh trust makes truth receivable. Trust
doesn't change truth, but it makes it
receivable. Uh people are more open and
receptive to hearing something, even if
it's confrontational,
right? Even if it's a little offensive,
they're more opening open to hearing it
from somebody that they already know,
that they already trust, and that they
already love.
And so, our relationships create this
this soil where spiritual conversations
can actually grow.
I I think that relationships when we
look at at at the idea of relational
evangelism and relationships,
relationships actually remove fear,
right? I'm not I'm not asking you to go
out and talk to strangers on the corner.
I'm not asking you to go to talk to
people in the mall and just interview
them and you know, hey, do you know
where you're going when you die? Right?
That that's scary to me. I might get
punched and part of me would like to
punch back, but um I'm trying to be a
better disciple. So, so that's scary to
me, right? But, but most of the anxiety
that comes from evangelism is this idea
of going out and talking uh to
strangers. I don't know any of you guys
in sales
for work,
Scott the golf guy, Dan. So, so think
about in sales, right? If you're if
you're trying to
the difference between a cold call, you
know, calling somebody that you don't
know, trying to generate business,
right, versus calling a repeat customer,
it's a lot easier to go to that person
that you've already established a
relationship with, you already have a
working relationship. If you're really
good at sales, you develop a personal
relationship with these folks, right?
It's a lot easier to call them and try
and generate business than it is to go
cold call and call strangers. especially
in today's world. I get like 70, you
know, phone calls a day and Apple now
automatically spams them. And I'm really
thankful uh for that.
And and I'm not insinuating that that
evangelism is sales uh but I'm just
trying to to show to you that that the
idea that anxiety goes away when it's
with people uh that you know.
Uh this is going to be our first lesson
next week. But relational credibility
gives gospel integrity.
People don't only evaluate the message,
right? When you are actually talking to
people about your faith, when you're
talking to people about Jesus, they're
not just evaluating what you say.
They're not just evaluating the message.
They're actually evaluating the
messenger
as well. We're going to talk about that.
And so your life, your disciplehip, it
is going to authenticate the message,
but it's also going to amplify the
message that you're trying to uh get
across. And then using relationships,
using using our relationships actually
creates these these natural
opportunities, these natural openings uh
to share your faith. You're not forcing
moments, right? This is this is within
the context of everyday disciplehip.
Many of us go to work, many of us uh
have children, many of us school
teachers, whatever the case may be, we
all have a rhythm that we go through in
life. And the idea is to just use that
rhythm, use the folks that you're
interacting with. And you're going to
naturally have opportunities to speak
about Jesus.
People in your in your little circle,
right? They're going to have hard weeks.
And that's an opportunity to step in
with good news. They're going to be
celebrating things in their life. And
that's an opportunity to step in and
explain to them how this honors and
glorifies God.
Uh people are going to, you know, deal
with with parenting struggles. I don't
know anything about that. My children
are are little angels.
And it's an opportunity to step in and
and show there's so much truth between
the idea of parenting a and God's love
for us. And I and I've come to realize
God's love through uh my life as a
father.
There's built-in opportunities
that are going to naturally arise for
spiritual depth in our relationships.
So, I mentioned this a little bit, but
but relational evangelism, it actually
mirrors Jesus's ministry, right? He
didn't run events. He didn't run
programs. Sure, there's a couple, you
know, examples of him actually preaching
to large crowds within the New
Testament, but but the majority of the
time he was eating with people, he was
walking with people. He was staying with
people. He was telling stories or
parables to make things relatable uh to
the audience. And and one of the biggest
things, we'll talk about this on the
accessibility week, but but Jesus
actually welcomed interruptions.
And I think part of our problem is that
we are so busy doing everything that we
want to be and want to do that we can't
be interrupted to take the time to
actually invest in somebody and and talk
to them and share our faith.
And then the last thing that I want to
talk about is that relation relational
evangelism, it's actually sustainable,
right? This isn't some big organized
event or a big organized program that
we're all coming together to participate
in. Uh we're not manufacturing leads,
right? We're actually just using we're
we're using our walk with Jesus to help
influence others and to impact others.
And so the reality is this a big thing
that I want you to get that is that we
don't need a new mission field, right? I
love the work that we go do in Honduras
and and Panama and and um where's the
other one? Starts with a G.
&gt;&gt; Guatemala. I wanted to say Guam. And I
knew that wasn't right. Guatemala,
right? I love I love that work. But the
reality is not many of us can go out and
actually do that. That takes a
sacrifice, right? Very uh deserving
sacrifice. Not many can like Rex go live
in you know Africa for seven years and
and build churches.
But we need to to realize that there is
a mission field around us and my mission
field is different than your mission
field. Your mission field is different
than your mission field and your mission
field is different than your mission
field because all of us come into
contact with different people. we might
come together and and and we might
worship together and yes, we've built
great relationships and and uh the
fellowship within the body of Christ.
That's fantastic. Need to do that to
continue to encourage one another,
right? Uh Hebrews 10:24 to stir up uh
good works, right? Love and good deeds.
But but our mission field is the people
that we come into contact with every
single uh day. They've been placed in
your life for a reason. But I'm going to
I want to look at it a little bit
differently. Yes, God has placed them in
your life for a reason, but God has
placed you in their life for a reason.
And so God has blessed you uh with a
with a circle of influence. People that
you already interact with cons
consistently, people who see your life,
people who see your character, uh uh
people where trust and history,
influence and credibility already exist.
And okay, well, who who are these
people? It's it's it's easy. It's your
family members, right? Many of us have
have family members who have not come to
know Jesus. Uh it's your friends and and
I don't care what age group you fall in
here, right? Uh young adults or silver
silver saints, I think is what what what
you're called. You have friends and you
have friends who don't know God and
don't know the love of Jesus. Many of
us, unless you're blessed to have
retired, I'm realizing uh looking at two
weddings uh coming up in in the next
like 20 years, and I don't think I'll
ever retire. Uh but many of you have
retired and and or have not retired and
you have co-workers. And I've been
blessed, man, my new job. It it is
amazing that there's seven to eight of
us who will actually sit down and talk
about spiritual things. Uh when I went
through everything with my family in
January, my CFO, my CEO, uh the VP of
finance, the uh manager of FPNA, they
were all texting me, encouraging me,
sending me Bible verses. They were they
were praying for me. They some of them
even wrote out their prayers and sent
them to me. And so I'm blessed in that
in that aspect. But there's still
several people across the organization
who don't know what that feels like, who
don't know what that support feels like.
And so you have co-workers that you can
go to. I know this is this is not in
today's day and age, uh, don't come
knocking on my door, man. I I'm I'm
liable to Well, I won't say what I do.
U, but you know, but your neighbors,
right, are a great opportunity to to
talk to people about your faith. means
you got to actually be a decent
neighbor, not showing up in just your
underwear when they knock on the door.
Uh you've got teammates, if your kids
are in sports, you've got parents that
you're standing around, you know, the
ball field with at practices and at
games. And these are opportunities to
create relationships, invest into people
uh and then share your faith with them
down the road. And then there's people
uh in your weekly rhythms, your weekly
routines that you're going to come
across. Uh I go to uh this Waw Wa right
here quite often uh for energy drinks.
Uh to the fact that and the 7-Eleven as
well. That's pretty bad. Uh but both of
them know that I have a problem with
energy drinks. They're like, "Man, you
drink way too many of these." Uh but but
I've created now relationships just
talking to them and I'm in there maybe
10 minutes, five minutes, you know, and
I just have talk to them about their
life. How are you? How's things going?
Right. And I was actually able, she's
she's not been able to join us yet, but
one of the one of the workers at the
7-Eleven, I was actually able to to
invite her to church and and she said,
"Well, that's a little, you know,
daunting. I've not been to church for a
while." And I said, "Well, would you
like to just sit down and have a Bible
study then?" And she loved that. She
wanted to do it. We've not we've not,
you know, done it yet, but she was open
to it because I've I've talked with her.
I've created a relationship with her.
Um, and it's not a very deep
relationship, but she's open to hearing
more.
And so if you are a true disciple of
Jesus, if you are an authentic disciple
of Jesus, your circle of influence is
going to be the most fertile ground that
you can go to. Right? It is the area
where you are going to have the most
likelihood of impact
in sharing the faith and talking to
other people about Jesus.
Right? You're not fighting for their
attention because the reality is you
already have it. Right? You're not
working hard to prove that you care and
you're not working to earn their trust
because the reality is they already know
that you do. They already know that they
can trust you,
right? They have seen your life. They've
seen your character. They've seen your
responses to things. They've seen your
growth. They've seen you in your
struggles. But most importantly, if
you're an authentic disciple of Jesus,
they've seen your transformation.
They've seen the way that you have
changed since coming to Jesus.
They've seen the way that you no longer
uh uh fly off at the handle.
They see that yes, even though times are
hard and things can be stressful, they
see that there is a peace that surrounds
you,
right? They hear you differently because
you're not a stranger talking at them,
but rather you're a friend speaking to
them.
Right? Evangelism is very very rarely a
a one-time event. Right? It's very rare
that you're going to walk up to somebody
in the hallway or or or at the mall and
and hey, do you know what you need to do
to be saved, you repent and be baptized,
and they're like, "Yep, let's go."
That's very rare. I'm not saying it
doesn't happen. That can happen. But the
reality is that even when those that
does happen, it's because people have
spent time, right, tilling the ground in
that person's life and in that person's
heart.
Whether whether whether that be acts of
love, uh service of of of needs, or even
spiritual conversations, somebody has
planted a seed and watered that seed for
quite some time. And so I hope over the
next few weeks I want want you guys to
realize you are already positioned for
evangelism.
You're already prepared for evangelism
because God has already placed you uh in
relationships where trust exists and
where influence is real. See the reality
is guys uh brother Sean Sean said it
right. Jesus came down to seek and save
the lost. Lost souls are within our
reach.
every day,
every time you walk out of the door, a
lost soul is within your reach. But this
is where, and this is what we're going
to cover the next few weeks, this is
where it gets it gets difficult because
if we're going to use uh relational
evangelism, this is going to become
challenging because all of these
benefits about using your relationships
to further the gospel and further the
kingdom, right? These relationships also
know your true colors,
right? These folks that you interact
with on a daily basis, they don't just
hear your message. They actually see
your disciplehip.
And so this I don't want to call it a
method because I think it's just it's
just a byproduct of our disciplehip to
Jesus. But these folks, they're not just
listening to the words you say about
Jesus. They're measuring what your life
says about him.
There's a quote and and many people have
have uh talked about how they they don't
like it. I used to like it, now I don't
like it so much, right? But have you
guys heard the quote? It says, "Preach
the gospel. If necessary, use words."
Have you guys heard that? Obviously, we
got to use words to talk about the
death, the burial, and the resurrection
of Jesus. We got to use words to talk
about the great lengths that God has
gone through uh to reconcile us to
himself. Right? that we have to use uh
words to do that. But what I'm trying to
get you to understand and where I think
that quote is trying to get to is that
your influence is never going to exceed
your integrity.
Right? Your uh your message is never
going to rise above the spiritual
maturity that you embody on a daily
basis because your circle knows how you
speak when you're irritated. Your circle
knows how you treat your spouse and how
you treat your children. Uh your your
circle knows how you treat those who
don't benefit you. They see it because
they're in your circle. They know how
you handle stress. They know how you
handle disappointment. They know how you
handle criticism. Uh they know how you
talk about people when they're not
around.
And so if if we're going to to to use
our relationships to evangelize and
reach the lost, uh we we've got to be
very careful about our authenticity in
our walk with Jesus.
Right? Your s your circle is going to
see when you praise forgiveness on
Sundays and you thank Jesus and and you
you thank God for his mercy and his
forgiveness, but they they'll see you
not being willing to let go of a grudge.
uh your circle is going to see when you
when you speak about generosity, but
then they're also going to see when you
cling on to every little penny that you
have in your wallet.
Uh they're going to see you talk about
the need to love your neighbor a as as
Jesus says. Uh but they're also going to
see you shooting the bird at every
single person on the roadway who isn't
driving the speed limit.
Your circle is going to see and hear
that you claim to have found peace and
joy in Jesus, but then they're going to
see
a a life or potentially see a life that
is constantly overwhelmed, that is
frantic, and that is bitter. And so, we
have a whole lot of opportunity to
utilize our relationships and the people
that we frequent on a daily basis. But
in order to do that, we have to be
authentic disciples of Jesus.
We have to listen to his word. We have
to apply it to our lives. And we have to
have the motive behind it, the same
motive that he had, which is love. And
so the credibility of our influence is
going to depend on the authenticity of
our disciplehip. real quick. I'll go
through four things and then I do have a
little bit of uh homework for you this
weekend or this week, I guess.
I I want I want to just talk about the
the four traits qualities that we're
going to look at over the next four
weeks. And again, I told you at the
beginning, these are not theologically
rich. They're not theologically deep.
uh you're not going to sit there and
wonder uh you know how can I remember
that and tell that to to somebody else.
But when when your circle sees these
traits or these qualities in your life,
they're going to not just notice you,
they're going to actually notice Jesus
in you. And so these four qualities,
traits that make evangelism work, I
believe they're credibility, right? Can
they trust you? And can they trust what
you say about Jesus?
We know that Jesus says in John 17 that
that God's word is truth. It's credible.
It's trustworthy.
Uh this is probably one of the hardest
ones, visibility, right? We need to
embrace the fact uh that that people are
now looking at us and seeing if our
words match up with our actions.
And so people are going to start to see,
hey, you talk a lot about faith. Has
that faith changed your life at all? Has
it made a difference in who you are and
how you interact with other people?
Well, I guess these are all hard because
this one's tough, too. Um accessibility,
right? I talked about being very busy,
but are you accessible? Are you
approachable uh to those in your life?
Do you have uh time uh to be interrupted
to help somebody in need to bear the
burden of somebody else? And then
lastly, reliability. Are you going to
show up, you know, when it matters uh
most? And so when these traits, these
qualities grow, our influence grows. And
when our influence grows within people,
our impact can grow uh within people.
And so what I want to do, if you will,
this week, I would like for you, this is
this is the homework.
I would like for you to name your
circle. I want you to to write three to
five people down on a piece of paper.
You don't have to do it today uh this
morning, right now, but I want you to
take some time and I want you to
evaluate, hey, who are some people that
I see regularly?
Who are some people that know me well
enough to trust me?
And who are who who are some folks in my
life who actually might be spiritually
open to learning more,
right? Right? And the reality is if you
take a few minutes, you might with me
mentioning this circle of influence, you
might have realized that God has already
placed a few people on your mind. There
are some people within your life that
you've been thinking about this entire
time. There's people in my life that
I've been thinking about. Small step,
right? Every Tuesday night, we pray at 7
p.m. for the church, for the community,
and then for our own courage and
boldness. And I hope that you guys have
been joining us, you know, on that. But
I want you to take those those three to
five people and I want you to plug those
into your to your prayer life. Not long
elaborate prayers. I don't want to time
you, but you know, 15 to 20 seconds on
on each of these and and pray for them.
Pray that God will soften their heart.
Pray that God will open their ears.
And then pray for yourself. Pray pray
for compassion.
Right? We have come to know and find the
love of God and the peace that Jesus
brings. And that should ache us when we
know there are other people out there
who don't know that, who haven't
experienced that. So pray for yourself
for compassion on their soul. And then
lastly, pray for opportunities uh to
point them to Jesus. And then pray for
courage when those opportunities arise.
They arise often. pray for courage to
actually do it.
And then lastly, the last bit of uh
homework, I I I'd encourage you to take
just one small step uh in that
relationship, right? Ask them, reach out
to them and ask them how you can pray
for them this week.
Uh check in with them if you know
something is going on in their life.
Send them a send them a note of
encouragement or offer help if you know
they're going through something. ask
them if there's a way uh that you can
help and then maybe even make yourself
uh accessible. Invite them to lunch or
or to to a coffee
and and spend some time with them.
I think that the majority of the people,
especially in America, but I think even
here in our community, Val Rico, Lithia,
Riverview, Brandon, they're going to be
reached by faithful,
uh, real,
authentic, everyday disciples
in their lives. And, and again, uh,
statistics, studies show that that's
true as well. There's a book, I don't
know if you've heard of it, but it's
called Living Dangerously: Seven Keys to
Intentional, uh, Disciplehip. And in
this book, Sean Anderson goes and does a
nationwide study. Uh, and what he says
is he says, "The results revealed that
individuals were influenced to commit
their lives to Jesus by people who
modeled Jesus in their lives." And so, I
want to encourage you and over the next
several several weeks, I want to
encourage you that that your ability and
your greatest evang evangelistic tool I
is not a method or a technique. Your
greatest evangelistic tool is the life
that you are living already on a daily
basis.
So I want to encourage you go this week
uh live as an everyday disciple uh have
real influence and have uh real impact.
Owen, would you mind coming and close us
out in prayer, brother?
Let's pray.
God and Father, we give you honor and
praise for who you are. We are so
thankful that
you have given your son as a gift, that
you have sought to have a relationship
with us. We're honored to be able to
call you our father. And father, we pray
that you'll be with each of us. We're
thankful for Chaz and the study that he
has been going through, what he has
shared with us so far, and we look
forward to the other messages for Rex
and for Keegan and their preparation for
this class.
Father, we are mindful that as your
children, we
we want to reach out to those around us.
And so we pray for each name that uh
that each of us have thought about
through today's lesson. And we pray for
each of those individuals.
We pray that you'll uh allow us to uh to
be more like Christ each day as we live.
That we'll let our light shine that
we'll use the opportunities that we have
in our day-to-day um walk to reach out
to those that we have contact with.
We're so thankful for uh the simplicity
of being able to share your gospel with
others around us that we don't have to
have in-depth
theological knowledge to reach out to
those and to share our faith. Father,
we're thankful for your spirit that
you've given to us that we pray as your
congregation that will allow you to work
through our lives uh to reach out to
those around us. We pray that uh many
can be reached in this community. We're
so thankful for your word that you given
to us and we ask this all in your son's
name. Amen.
