again uh our scripture that I've
reminded you several times about Isaiah
52:6. My people shall know my name.
Therefore, they shall know in that day
that I am he who speaks. Behold, it is
I.
Now, I recognize that uh there's a lot
of people who use the name Jehovah, but
it's kind of a innocent
misprononunciation of God's true name. I
don't think it's wrong. It's just not
correct. Yahweh or YHWH the
tetrogrammaton
and more correct. It's comes from issues
with different languages and trying to
uh put this all together uh into
English. But I do think there's a lot of
times when we get names innocently
wrong. And I I don't I don't think
there's a sin in that when you're
attempting to do what's right.
Obviously, nobody likes their name
mispronounced, but nobody gets too mad
about it generally as a rule. I thought
this was interesting though. Uh RC
Oliver, some of you may know R or known
RC Oliver. I don't know if you knew him.
Uh he's a gospel preacher. He's a
writer, debater. He's a professor at
Freed Hardman uh college before it
became a university. And at one of the
chapel talks
uh he had a lesson on the importance of
names. probably I don't know the exact
nature of the lesson where he went with
that may have probably emphasized the
church name church of Christ I don't
know I wasn't there but this is the
story that's told in that while he was
doing that he told the story of growing
up and uh his name was RC Oliver that
was his name
that was his name RC
Oliver
No, RC didn't stand for anything. R
didn't stand for anything. C didn't
stand for anything. His name was RC
Oliver. But he had teachers and
principles that really didn't believe
him. And so they get frustrated with
him. And they were certain that R stood
for something. C stood for something.
But he would end up his older sister
would stand up for him and say no. The
two letters is all his mother and father
gave him. His name was RC Oliver. That
was fairly good until he got to the
military and he had to fill out some
paperwork and get particularly a DMV
licenses as the story goes and the
department sent back his paperwork
rejecting his applications because he
just used simple initials and not his
name. So he then returned the letter he
says with the following R dash only C
dash only Oliver. He received his
license with Ronald Connelly Oliver.
That's his name. Ronald Connelly.
Emma or I'm a I am a uh real person
lived between 1882 and 1975. It was her
real name. She was a prominent Texan and
philanthropist and she was the daughter
of one of the former Texas governors, J
Governor James Steven Hog.
So her name was I'm a hog. That's real.
That that's not made up. Now people used
to because that was true. People would
say uh she had a sister named Ura
and
but that's not true. That wasn't true.
Uh but uh she's actually a great person.
She she was known for founding the
Houston Symphony and the Hog Foundation
for Mental Health. So she's actually a
good person that sometimes people get
run down. Charles Austin Miles, you
probably well you might have seen the
name in your song book. uh wrote a song
in 1912. It's called I come to the
garden alone. Beautiful song. It says,
'I come to the garden alone while the
dew is still on the roses and the voice
I hear falling on my ear, the son of God
discloses. The refrain is and he walks
with me and he talks with me and he
tells me I am his own and the joy we
share as we tar there none other has
ever known. He speaks and the sound of
his voice is so sweet that the birds
hush their singing and the melody that
he gave to me within my heart is
ringing. The refrain again and he walks
with me and he talks with me and he
tells me I am his own and the joy we
share as we carry there none other has
ever known. Third verse, I stay I'd stay
in the garden with him, though the night
around me be falling, but he bids me go
through the voice of woe. His voice to
me is calling the refrain again. And he
walks with me and he talks with me and
he tells me I am his own. And the joy we
share as we carry there, none other has
ever known. It became known
now who mistakenly believes God's name
is Howard and her it's come back. Okay.
So maybe he's okay with this. So So her
mother asked her on the video, "Where
did you get the idea that God's name was
Howard?" He says, "Our Father who art in
heaven, Howard be thy name." So I think
there's a lot of innocent ways that
people are referred to God and trying to
be respectful even doing that. Uh, I I
don't think it's bad. I just if it's
innocent, I think you need to try to do
the right thing and say things right.
But innocence covers a lot of things. I
want to set the stage and read a little
more. We read a moment ago, but I want
us to go back a little bit and remind us
of what So, if you've got your Bibles
open, go to Exodus 33. I want to start
in verse 18 of Exodus 33. Did we lose
the slide? Did we lose the slides? Okay,
we'll start in. Okay.
And he said, uh, oh, there it is. Back
up. What? Um, I think I've got that.
Nope, I don't. Never mind. Let's leave
it right there for a minute. Uh, and he
said, uh, this is in Exodus 33:18. And
he said, "Please show me your glory."
So, this is the reason I wanted you to
see that because the context is not just
knowing his name, but knowing his glory.
verse 7 uh verse 19. Then he said, "I
will make all my goodness pass before
you and I will proclaim the name of
Yahweh before you and I will be gracious
to whom I will be gracious and I will
have compassion on whom I will have
compassion." Repeated in scripture,
especially Romans 9 verse 20. But he
said, "You cannot see my face, for no
man shall see me and live." And Yahweh
said, "Here's a place by me, and you
shall stand on the rock. So it shall be
while my glory passes by that I will put
you in the cliff of the rock and will
cover you with my hand while I pass by."
Then I will take away my hand, and you
shall see my back, but my face shall not
be seen." And then over in chapter 34,
that's the context. 34, particularly
verses 5-7. Now Yahweh descended in the
cloud and stood with him there and
proclaimed the name of Yahweh. And
Yahweh passed before him and proclaimed
Yahweh Yahweh l merciful and gracious,
long-suffering and abounding in goodness
and truth, keeping mercy for thousands,
forgiving iniquity and transgression and
sin. by no means clearing the guilty,
visiting the iniquity of the fathers
upon the children and the children's
children to the third and the fourth
generation.
So in this last thing we want to look at
three truths that jump off of that
immediately thereafter particularly uh 5
through 14. So that's what we'll look at
quickly. Number one,
knowing God's name and hearing of his
glory
makes us worship him.
That's what happens in the text. We
worship God when we hear of his
preeminence. After hearing all that, it
says in verse eight, "And Moses made
haste when he heard all that and bowed
his head toward the earth and
worshiped." When you really get a grasp
of who he was, who he is, what God is,
and the goodness of God, it makes you
worship. And we worship God when we hear
of his protection. Particularly, you
hear that in the whole story here. But
Exodus 4:31, it says, "And when they
heard that Yahweh had visited the
children of Israel and that he had
looked on their affliction, then they
bowed their heads and worshiped." When
you know that God's got your back and
you really believe it, it'll make you
worship. It says in Exodus 12 27 that
you shall say, "It is the Passover
sacrifice of Yahweh who passed over the
house of the children of Israel in Egypt
when he struck the Egyptians and
delivered our household." So the people
bowed their heads and worshiped. So I
think what you're hearing just those two
little things to the greatest
motivations if you will want to worship
God is when you truly know of his
preeminence
and when you truly know that he's got
your back that he is protecting you and
blessing you. That's not to say there's
no trouble comes your way but it is to
say that God is overall even when
trouble comes your way. So, knowing his
name and his glory makes us worship God.
The second truth I want you to see in
this text is knowing God's name and
hearing of his glory makes you want him.
Not just worship him, it makes you want
him in your life. We want God when we
really hear particularly of his graces.
It says in verse 9, then this is Moses.
Then he said, "If now I have found grace
or favor in your sight, oh Lord, let my
Lord, I pray, go among us."
He said, "I don't want to leave here
unless you're going to go with us." Even
though we are cuz God had just said
just said he was a stiff necked people
and he said and even though we are a
stiff necked people
and pardon our iniquity and our sin and
take us as your inheritance.
Now, if you remember in Exodus 20, when
they heard his voice, they were afraid
for God to speak to them. But they truly
did want him among them. And we want God
not only to be among us because of his
grace that he's willing to put up with
our stiff neckness. And by the way, who
who are stiff necked?
All of us a little bit.
All of us. We call it hard-headed,
hard-hearted,
all a little bit stiff necked. But God
can extend grace even to the stiff neck.
Well, you better hope he can.
You better hope he can. Yes. So, not
only do we want God when we hear of his
grace, we want God when we hear of his
laws.
You may think that that's not true,
but humans want structure. I'll give you
an example, and I'll then I'll read
this. Our
kids loved us most right after we
spanked them.
Some of you don't believe in spanking.
Let me tell you something. I knew my
kids were loved their mom and loved me
after we would spank them. They would be
so good for like two weeks almost. Just
one little spanking. It's amazing. I'm
telling you straight up. Kids want
structure.
People want structure. The last thing
they want is chaos. Nobody wants You
don't want to work in an environment you
don't want know the rules. You don't
want to live in an environment you don't
know the rules. We we want structure.
You want to play a sport and not know
the rules. Do you want the the referees
to change the rules while you're
playing? You don't want to be a part of
anything you don't have rules about.
Listen to this. This is from Nehemiah
8:es 5-9. Ezra opened the book in the
sight of the people, for he was standing
above the people. And when he opened it,
all the people stood up. It actually
says that he stood on a pullpit, which
by the way, this is not a pullpit, but
as a platform. Verse six, and Ezra
blessed the Lord, the great God. Then
all the people answered, "Amen. Amen."
While lifting up their hands, and they,
by the way, that's apparently
scriptural. While lifting up their
hands, saying, "Amen." And they bowed
their heads, which is awkward. And they
bowed their heads and worshiped Yahweh
with their faces to the ground. And the
people wept. Listen to what it says. And
the people wept. Verse 9. When they
heard the words of the law.
People want structure.
They want grace,
but they want rules.
So this idea, oh, all we want is grace.
No. You may think that's true of you,
but that's not true. You want structure.
And you want grace when you mess up in
the structure. So in knowing his name,
his glory makes us want him. It's his
grace and his laws particularly that
draw us in and say we need that. We need
God and I want him with me. Number
three,
we know God's name and and and knowing
God's name and hearing of his glory
makes us watch him. Now, if you're a
praying person, you watch God. If you're
not, you don't. You think you sort it
all out. But we watch God when we hear
of his works. We've heard what God will
do and what he has done. And then we
start watching. Exodus 34 101 back in
your text. And he said, "Behold," and
is, "Look, I make a covenant before all
your people." So in front of you, I will
do marvels. I'll do marvels in front of
you, such as have not been done in all
the earth, nor in any nation, and all
the people among whom you are shall see
the work of the Lord.
Now, that's still true, by the way,
folks. And it is an awesome thing that I
will do with you. Observe what I
command. Look at what I've commanded you
this day. Behold, look again. I am
driving out from before you the Amorite,
the Canaanite, the I Hitittite, and the
Perizzite, and the Hivite, and the
Jebusite. So he says, look at what I'm
doing. Take a look. So what I'm
suggesting to you is is that when you
truly start knowing God's name and you
start getting a grasp of his glory,
you start watching him.
You say, "Why, I've never seen God."
Well, if you're a praying person, you've
seen God do stuff. You've seen it. Amen.
You've seen it. And you start watching
for it. And if you're not watching for
it, you start not believing God does
anything. But if you watch for it, all
of a sudden, you start seeing what God's
doing around you. So, we not only do we
watch God and watch him more once we see
his works. And we want to watch him even
more. We watch God when we hear of his
wonders
and u and I know I know some people
believe all that happened in the Bible
and God doesn't do anything today.
I don't believe that. Most of you don't
either. I'm not suggesting I'm going to
walk on water this week. Not nothing
like that. But the idea that God's not
doing wonderful things around us, that's
not not so. He's feeding us. He's
clothing us. He's those are pretty
wonderful things. I don't know about
you, but being taken care of is pretty
wonderful thing. Listen to what it says
in First Kings 18:es 37-39.
Hear me, oh Yahweh. Hear me that the
people may know that you are Yahweh,
God, and that you have turned their
hearts back to you. God does that. Verse
38. By the way, has your heart ever
turned away? Mine has. Who turned it
back? He did. Verse 38. Then the fire of
Yahweh fell, consumed the burnt
sacrifice and the wood and the stones
and the dust, and it licked up the water
that was in the trench.
Had never happened before, had it? Verse
39. Now when all the people saw it,
they fell on their faces and they said,
"Yahweh, he is Elohim. Yahweh, he is
Elohim. He is God.
So we watch God and when we see God do
things in our life, it brings us back
here.
It brings us back here. So knowing his
name and his glory makes us watch him.
And so that's that's the lesson in a
really simple lesson. God has a name.
And so knowing God's name and hearing of
his glory makes us do these three
things. It makes us worship him.
It makes us want him in our life and it
makes us watch him and watch what he's
doing. Keep an eye open all the time.
Jesus said, "Watch and pray."
Okay? Watch and pray. Keep watching. You
never know. So, one Sunday a preacher
got up and preached a sermon. Dangerous
thing to preach on. He preached on
honesty.
Well, that was Sunday.
Monday,
uh, he took the bus to the church office
and he paid the fair on his bus
and the bus driver, he didn't realize
it, gave him back too much change. And
so he goes to his seat and he's looking
at the money and he sits down. And for
the rest of his journey, the preacher
was rationalizing, now did God just
provide me with the money that I was
really hurting for? Uh, I really could
use this extra money. I mean, it's just
a few coins, but ministers aren't known
for being that well paid through the
years. And he was looking at it going,
I don't know. And but he rationalized it
the best he could, but finally he just
couldn't live with himself. So when it
was his turn to get off, he went by the
bus driver and he said, "Look, you gave
me too much. U here here's what how much
extra he gave him." And that's when the
bus driver said, "Um,
I didn't make a mistake." He said,
"Yeah, you made a mistake. You've given
me too much money." I said, "No,
I was there yesterday when you preached
the sermon on honesty.
There's no mistake. I was in your church
yesterday and heard you preach that we
all should be honest. So, I decided to
put you to the test this morning.
We can blasphe God with our mouth, but
we can blasphe God with our behavior.
And that's the the next little thing you
see up here. Don't mistake this.
We do not
have to personally verbally blasphem God
to blaspheme God. We can be guilty of
blasphemy in behavior. Romans 2 and
verse 24 says the name of God is
blasphemed because of you. But he's
talking about their sinful behavior.
When we sin in a public way, everybody
that knows us, look, and you've heard
this possibly, you call yourself a
Christian.
1 Timothy 6 and verse one,
count us worthy of all honor that the
name of God and his doctrine may not be
blasphemed. The name of God can be
blasphemed but even his teaching his
doctrine is blasphemed when I am not
living a worthy life.
So even what we believe you can preach
the whole truth to the whole world and
it be blasphemy
if my behavior is wrong. It's all there
is to it. In Titus 2 and verse 5,
discreet, chasteed. So this is for
women. Look at this text. Discreet,
chasteed, homemakers, good, obedient to
their own husbands. That the word of God
may not be blasphemed.
So even a woman can blasphe. Doesn't
have to be out in the career. Just at
home, just simple things. If you're not
the person you should be even at home
with nobody watching. How about that?
How does that blast? Nobody has to see.
Now that's an important thing for you to
concept here. Nobody has to see it for
it to blasphe the name of God. Oh,
obviously when they see bad behavior, it
blasphemes the name of God. But bad
behavior blasphemes the name of God
whether anybody sees it or not.
How about that?
So let's be as careful as we can and not
be guilty of blaspheming. I certainly we
should not blasphe the name of God
verbally. Absolutely. That's been the
central core of this whole study. We
should be very honoring. We should be
careful how we speak about God, what we
say of God, how we honor God, why we
come to worship, all of that.
Absolutely. That's critical. That's the
whole study. But at the same time, let's
glory in God's glory. Absolutely. Let's
praise God's holy name and emphasize the
fact that he is different. He is other
not like us. Absolutely. Let's do that.
Let's worship him. Let's want him. Let's
watch him. But in the middle of all
that,
let's be careful who we are because who
we are says a world about the God we
serve.
So watch
who and what what were the wonderful
things that God was promised he was
going to do. Have you ever heard of
Jesus?
You think the big thing he did was
creating the world? That's a big thing.
You think the big thing he did was the
Tower of Babel. Big thing. Big thing was
delivering Israel out of Egyptian
captivity.
Big thing. Big thing. Delivering the law
to them. Big thing. All the miracles
that happened in the wilderness, big
thing. All the prophets in Cain, big
thing. What was the biggest thing? You
and I really know. It was Jesus. It was
Jesus.
And all I can say to that is let's not
blasphe the name of God the Father or
his holy son. If you're here tonight,
you've never given your life to the
Lord. We want to help you in that
process. You need to repent of your
sins, confess the name of Christ, and be
baptized, we'll serve you tonight. We'll
fill up the the trough promise. We'll do
it. And if you're here tonight and you
need to come back, we're here to serve
you that way, too. Or if you just got a
prayer request, let us serve you right
now as and come as we stand and as we
