lesson in this portion of the workshop.
Uh re next Sunday, Rex will be taking
over for the month of April. He'll be
going through uh he's going to step in.
He's going to be going through some of
the resources that we have available to
use uh for Bible study, for personal
Bible study, for uh evangelism. Really
excited, you know, for that. Uh the goal
of this whole thing, I just want to
bring it back before we jump in. The
goal of this whole thing is for us to
hopefully feel equipped to go out and do
uh what we've been called to do. My my
goal for this is I wanted us to be
intentional
about trying to
um help you guys understand, help myself
understand through this study that that
we can all do this, right? We can all
share our faith. we can all reach out to
those around us and I'm just trying to
highlight some ways uh that we can we
can be effective and I hope that it's
been a blessing to you gotten some
really good feedback. I also had a
little bit of of intel some some uh
somebody gave me a little bit of insight
that the preacher might go long this
morning. Uh so I have only put uh two
points into this lesson uh just so we
can actually you know get out of here on
time and and go to uh lunch or nap for
me. So this morning we're going to look
at the reliability of the everyday
disciple. Like I said I've got two
points. I want to look at how our our
reliability shows the characteristics of
God's faithfulness and then how our
reliability then we're going to flip
focus just a little bit how our
reliability actually strengthens and
sustains
the growth of a faithful uh disciple or
or a growing disciple. And I got a
couple ways I want to just talk through
some things that I've even seen here at
Creekide that that encourage me. And so
first reliability shows the
characteristics of God's faithfulness.
Before
reliability can be something that we
practice. It is something that God
perfectly displays for us consistently
throughout the word of God. He tells us
that he is uh faithful. We are told that
God is faithful. If you go all the way
back to Deuteronomy 7,
uh Moses is speaking to the Israelites
there and he says, "Therefore know that
the Lord your God, he is God, the
faithful God, who keeps covenant and
mercy for a thousand generations who
love him and keep his commandments." And
I'm going, I will butcher uh the Hebrew
here if I if I tried to say it. But
Moses is reminding the Israelites, he's
reminding the people uh that hey, your
God, the God that you follow, is a
faithful God. He is a trustworthy God.
He is a dependable and reliable God. And
that's extremely important for us to
remember
uh even in our lives today. Uh the word
the Hebrew word there uh for uh faithful
it it describes someone who can be
trusted completely.
Uh somebody who keeps their word and who
remains steady
even when circumstances change. And if
you read through the the Old Testament,
the ups and the downs of the Israelite
people, you see God remain faithful.
And and and when we say faithful, right,
we have to understand when we're talking
about the characteristics of God, we're
talking about all of the characteristics
of God. Not just his love and his mercy
and his grace, but also his holiness,
his righteousness, his justice.
That is what God is faithful to. He is
faithful to who he is in its entirety.
And I've mentioned this before. I think
we can get into trouble.
We can we can make ourselves even make
an idol out of God when we do not
worship him in his entirety.
When we not believe him that he says who
he is in his entirety. If if the God
that you worship and that you you know
love is nothing but wrath a and and and
justice a and and and just mean that's
not the God of the Bible. He may have
some of those things, right? He is the
not mean but justice and right and holy.
But on the flip side of that, if the God
that you worship is is nothing but love
and grace and mercy
and we don't care about the holiness and
the righteousness and the and the doing
what he says, that's also not the God of
the Bible. We have to bring it all
together and have a faithful God who is
faithful to all of his characteristics
and everything that he says. and and and
that's not something that God does
occasionally uh in his faithfulness. It
is who he is, the faithful God. Uh his
promises, right? They're not temporary.
Uh his character does not fluctuate and
his commitment to his people does not
fade. And we see that all the way
through uh through the end of
Revelation. from from the beginning of
Genesis through the end of revelation.
He is the faithful God who keeps
covenant and who keeps mercy.
Uh the Hebrew writers in in in chapter
10 of Hebrews 10, the writer says that
that this is actually the reason why we
can cling on to the hope that we have
is because he who promises is faithful.
Uh 2 Timothy chapter 2 uh Paul says in
verse 11, "This is a faithful saying,
for if we died with him, we shall also
live with him. If we endure, we shall
also reign with him. If we deny him, he
will also deny us." Verse 13, if we are
faithless,
he rem he remains faithful. He cannot
deny himself. And so God is faithful.
He's always been faithful. He will
always be faithful to his promises, to
his purpose, uh, and to his to his
people.
And so, what does that what does that
faithfulness look like? I think the one
of the the most, uh, one of the ways
that God uh, it shows us his
faithfulness the most is through his his
love. And it looks like love that stays.
The Bible calls that steadfast love. And
so, Lamentations 3 verse 22, uh, the
steadfast love of the Lord never ceases.
His love does not quit. His love does
not walk away. His love does not run out
on his people. His love is consistent.
His love is a committed love. And his
love, praise God, is an enduring love uh
for us. I don't know about you guys, I
can be hard to love. Yeah, thank you for
not amening that. I can be hard to love,
but God's love does not change. Uh
Romans 5:8, Paul tells us that God
demonstrates his own love for us. That
while we were still sinners, Christ died
for us. Uh we're going to spend a little
bit of time here in 1 John 4, if you
want to turn there in your Bibles, uh
but 1 John 4:9. In this the love of God
was made manifested towards us that God
sent his only begotten son into the
world that we might live through him.
Verse 10. In this is love, not that we
loved God, but that he loved us and sent
his son to be the propitiation
for our sins. And guys, this is the
whole point of us going out into the
community and telling them about Jesus,
right? It's it's not to make ourselves
look better. It's not to to to make
ourselves look more knowledgeable or
smarter or like better people, more
respectable people, right? The whole
point of us going out into the community
to talk to people about Jesus is to
point to the father's love because Jesus
is the ultimate example of God
demonstrating his love for his people.
And and the amazing thing about this and
the reason why we go out, right, is
because God, he did not wait for
consistency from his people.
Read through the Old Testament.
Israelites were not a consistent person.
Yes,
&gt;&gt; I think we point to go God's love and we
reflect it.
It points to his love by us reflecting
his love.
Good question. Right? He did not wait
for consistency from his people. He
didn't wait for the faithfulness from
his people. He didn't wait for his
people to love him. Right? Even think
about ourselves. Jesus had already come,
walked the earth, right? Been crucified
on the cross for our sins long before I
was even thought of. God didn't wait for
me,
right? He didn't wait for you. He takes
it on himself to uh move towards us, to
move towards his people. Uh even when we
fail him,
uh even when we fall short of his glory,
he is still faithful. He is still
loving. And I and I wonder right like
how how can God love us so much? How can
he love his creation so much? I have two
beautiful little girls. One of them's
very sweet. One of them's wild. Uh and I
I love them. I And I I'll tell you, I
said it before, I'll say it again. I
didn't I could not even begin to fathom
God's love until I had kids, right? I I
I I couldn't I couldn't begin to even
comprehend it until I had children. I
read before I had kids. I read through
the Old Testament. I'm like, "God, how
are you putting up with that? Why you
smack them down?" Right? Now that I have
kids, I'm like, "Oh, I can see how God
put up with that."
Because he created them. And in some
ways, I helped create mine, right? And
they're mine and I love them. And yes,
there are times I want to smack them
down.
But then I pull them right back up into
my lap and explain to them why they, you
know, got on to.
But he loves But even my love, right, as
a father, your love as as fathers,
mothers, sisters, brothers,
grandparents, right? Your love is not
perfect the way that God loves. And
God's love is perfect for us. Because if
you go back to verse 7 of of 1 John uh
4, it says that God is love. He doesn't
just show love occasionally, right? He
doesn't uh he doesn't just act lovingly.
He is love. He is the example of love.
He is the perfect representation of
love. And if you go down to verse 11 of
1 John 4, right? It says that uh if God
so loved us, we ought to love one
another. And this is where I said we're
going to change it just a little bit
because I want to look at here and I
want to look at John 13. Uh but we ought
to love one another. We must be reliable
to one another within the walls of this
church
before we can go out and be reliable to
the community around us. And that
reliability is not just being nice. Uh
it's not just being helpful. It's not
just being available like we talked
about a few weeks ago, right? It's it's
loving people the way that God has loved
us.
I love you the way that God has loved
me. And I hope that you love me the way
that God has loved you.
And to be reliable, to be faithful to
those around us, especially within uh
within this body, right? It's to say,
"Hey, I'm not going anywhere.
I understand you're going through a
really tough time right now.
I understand you might be struggling
with this or with that, but I am not
going to give up on you.
Uh if you go to John chapter 13, right,
Jesus tells us uh that it is our love
that will let people know that we are
his disciples.
He doesn't say that uh they're going to
know us uh by our knowledge,
right? He doesn't say that they're going
to know us by our uh activities that we
do.
Doesn't say they're going to know us
because of our good works. He's they're
going to know us because of our love.
And now our love, right, for them, for
for one another, for God, our love
brings those things on, right? I do good
works because I love God and because I
love you.
Love has to be the defining mark of a
disciple of uh of of Jesus. And and we
need to understand this is really really
tough to do in application, right? But
biblical love is not emotional,
right? If we if we let our love run off
of emotions, the moment I get frustrated
with something or get, you know,
frustrated with one of you guys or get
frustrated with somebody in my life, if
if I'm just solely running off of
emotions, I'm going to retreat.
But that's not what we're called to do.
If if if if all I do is run off of
occasional love,
then uh it's not reliable love. It's not
a love that endures. Uh, and biblical
love often, right? And we see it through
the life of Jesus. Biblical love is not
convenient.
We want our love to be convenient. I
want to love you when it makes sense for
me to love you, not when you need it,
right? I want to love you when it when
it when it's right for me. But biblical
love again is consistent. It's
committed. It is dependable. It is a
reliable love. And and if I truly love
somebody, and again, all of this in
context, right, of 1 John 4 and John
chapter 13, it's talking about the
brotherhood. It's talking about one to
another. Um about fellow about fellow
disciples.
And when I love uh people like that,
truly love them, I don't uh disappear
when things get hard. I don't just check
in one time and move on because I've
done my job.
Uh I don't give up when they struggle. I
can't tell you how many people I've
failed and in in my life. And I am so
blessed. We're going to talk about it
here in a minute. I'm so blessed that
people did not give up on me.
For those of you who are new, you don't
know me that well. Um, but but there was
a time 10 maybe not even 10 years ago,
five 10 years ago, I had no business
being up here, right? I didn't want to
be up here.
But there are people in this room that
did not give up on me.
There are people in this room who were
reliable that even in my tough times, I
could go to them and I knew I was going
to get a word. I knew I was going to be
encouraged. I knew I was going to be
held accountable and be put back on
track. And praise God for people like
that. And now because there are people
like that in my life, I want to be like
that for others
because that's exactly how God has led
loved us. Right? He has stayed steadfast
when we've drifted. Anybody I don't want
I don't want to ask a raise of hands.
Um,
have you drifted at some point in your
life
and God remains?
Have you resisted
at some point in your life? Not just
drifted, but actively turned your back
and God not only remained, but he
pursued you with faithful disciples and
his love.
Tough one.
Have you been inconsistent
in your love for God, for your worship
of God? Have you been inconsistent in
your obedience to his word? And he's
been faithful.
Right? When we love people like that,
when we love people the way that God has
loved us, we become dependable in their
life. uh we become consistent in their
life. We become reliable in their life
and it's not just for the sake of being
reliable.
But it's because uh the result of
uh it's because we love them, right?
Reliability, I've said this, hopefully
you understand what I'm trying to say
here. Um I've said this the whole last
five weeks, right? Reliability is not a
strategy. I've tried to make that very
clear. uh that this class has not been
about strategies,
right? This class has been about living
out our call as disciples and followers
of Jesus. If you want to call that a
strategy, call it a strategy. That's
what I'm trying to get across is that if
I am a faithful disciple of Jesus and a
true worshipper of the father, these
things are going to happen
because God through the work of the Holy
Spirit is going to work through me.
This has all been about living out our
call as disciples. And so when this
kind, and this is where we're going to
turn, if this kind of faithful,
consistent love uh is present in
someone's life, it doesn't just show
them the characteristics of God's
faithfulness, right? We reflect God's
faithfulness. We reflect God's love, we
reflect God's mercy, we reflect God's
justice. Um and and and when we are when
we are reliable,
um
it actually helps people grow, right? It
helps them become who God is calling
them to be. It strengthens who they're
becoming. And so the second point, we're
doing really good on time. Uh the second
point is that reliability strengthens
and sustains faithful disciples. And I
called this out in a sermon a few uh
months ago. I'm going to talk about it
the Sunday morning when it comes uh May.
Right?
our call as disciples,
right? Not only are we called to
evangelize the lost, right? But we are
called to make disciples of those who
have come to know Jesus. Um like I said,
I've mentioned it. I'm going to keep
mentioning it. Uh but Jesus, especially
in Matthew 28, the great commission,
Jesus does not call us to go out and
make converts.
He doesn't want us to just get people
baptized and and call that the finish
line and we've done our job and we can
move on. That's not what we've been
called to do. Uh Matthew 28:19,
go therefore and make disciples,
teaching them to observe all that I have
commanded you. I saw this quote this
week and I really liked it. It says uh
Jesus or the call of Jesus was never
just conversion.
It was continuation.
Right? We we we make disciples. We make
followers of the way. We make
apprentices of Jesus. And this was a
common thing back in back in Jesus's
day. If you go back and you study the um
the Jewish culture,
this is familiar language to to people
of that time. Disciplers were followers
of their rabbi, right? And their job,
they had three jobs. uh but but as a
disciple uh of their uh rabbi, their
goal was to be with their rabbi, follow
him absolutely everywhere.
Uh become like their rabbi. They would
imitate their teaching. They would
imitate uh most rabbis had a specific
set of scripture that they mastered and
they taught. Uh they would take their
teaching style, their their lifestyle
and they would they would become like
their rabbi. And then the very last
thing, and this is what Jesus is saying
here in Matthew 28.
He the last thing that a that a disciple
would do was actually go out and do what
their rabbi did. Their rabbi made
disciples of which they were one. And
then they would come to a certain set of
knowledge and training and and
experience and then they would go out
and make disciples of themselves.
And that was the whole idea of of
disciplehip underneath uh the rabbi. And
that is what we are called. We don't
make disciples of ourselves, right? I'm
not advocating that at all. But what I'm
saying is as a disciple of Jesus, we now
go out and make other disciples of
Jesus.
And then they make other disciples of
Jesus. And then they make other
disciples of Jesus. And before you know
it, uh the whole world is covered with
disciples of Jesus.
But it takes time. It takes consistency.
It takes relationship with those around
us to actually be disciples making uh
disciples. And I love if you go turn
turn your Bibles to Acts chapter 13. Uh
we're not going to read a bunch of it,
but I will reference it. Acts 13 and 14.
Uh you see this uh from Paul and
Barnabas. In Acts 13, they preach in
Antioch. Uh that's most of most of
chapter 13. They preach in Antioch at
the beginning of chapter 14. They preach
in Aonium and then they preach in uh
Lististra
uh through verse 18 verse 19. It says
that Paul is stoned and he's left for
dead, right? Um and then he gets up and
he goes off to Derby with with uh
Barnabas. And it says after preaching
and uh making disciples in Derby
uh many disciples uh verse 21 2021 uh it
says they returned to Lististra Aonium
and Antioch and it says they were
strengthening the souls of the disciples
exhorting them to continue in the faith.
Right? They didn't just make disciples
of people and move on entirely.
They actually came back and they
strengthened them. And this is what we
see, right? And through our through our
evangelism and we get people all the way
up to the point of baptism and then it's
almost like, "Hey, man, we did our job
and they're on their own."
But that's why this fellowship is so
important. That's why coming here three
times a week is so important so that we
can actually disciple one another
and become more and more like Jesus
every single day. I love my
father-in-law's preaching, but I don't
come here for that.
I come here to be encouraged. I come
here to be exhorted. I come here to for
for the relationships that we have. And
all of that, right, is glorifying God
and doing what he's called us uh to do.
And so it's extremely important that
we're that we're reliable
uh to one another.
Uh because people, right, they don't
grow strong in their faith by accident.
Uh Sean and I were just talking about
this, right? If you really want to grow,
I mean, you don't it doesn't happen by
accident. It is intentional taking time
and spending time in the word and is
intentional being around others uh who
want to see you grow, right? You have to
want to grow and then you need to
surround yourself with people who who
want to see uh you grow. So, I just want
to call out as we wrap this up, I want
to call out a few ways uh that I think
we can see our reliability and how it
helps strengthen
one another.
I found this definition of of
reliability and I thought it was really
good. It says reliability is consistent
intentional investment in someone's
spiritual life over time.
And so this is how I think we see this
show up in the body of Christ today. Uh
reliability shows up intentionally,
right? You don't wait for opportunities
to come about to be uh reliable. You
reach out. I reach out and initiate uh
the conversation. I want to be
intentional about being dependable uh
for those around me, right? Somebody
reaches out to me, hey, can I help with
this? You know what? Even if it's
doesn't fit in my schedule, I want to be
dependable. I want to be the person that
they can go to. I want to be the person
that they can call on and and and follow
through. And there's several uh brothers
here uh within within Bel or Belsholes,
man, I'm tired. Within Creekide, right,
that that do this for me, constantly
shooting me texts, constantly checking
in on me, constantly asking, you know,
how they can pray for me, if there's
anything that I need. And and I know I
need to do better. I can do better about
being intentional with uh with our
brothers and our sisters here. Uh this
is a really really big one and we're
going to talk a little bit about it
tonight if you guys come back for
tonight's lesson. Uh but but reliability
speaks truth consistently, right? It's
not just enough to encourage one
another, but we need to actually
instruct one another.
We need to open up the Bible and sit
down with somebody and read what the
Bible has to say. Uh we need to
encourage people and help them and and
this is where I've really uh myself been
trying to do a better job. We need to
encourage people and help them see the
world, see their life, see their
situation through a biblical worldview.
Not necessarily just a carnal, you know,
cultural worldview, but a true biblical
worldview. Because there are reasons
that things are happening in the world
that are happening. There are reasons
that that things are happening in your
life that are happening. And if you go
to the word of God, you'll actually see
why some of these things are happening.
Not only will you see why they're
happening, you're going to see how you
should respond to them.
And and and we can be reliable speaking
truth consistently because we align
people with truth. There's been many
times in my life and I said, "Hey man,
I'm this has happened to me and I think
it's because of A, B, and C." And
somebody say, "Ah, no. That's not what
the Bible says about this."
And so, we align with truth. I don't
want to go too much further in there.
Like I said, we're going to talk about
it a little bit tonight. Reliability
checks in spiritually. It's not just,
hey, how are you? It's actually, hey,
how are you doing spiritually? Has
anybody ever asked you uh I mean just
straight up, hey man, are you reading
your Bible very much? Have you been Have
you been reading your Bible? How's your
prayer life?
Where are you struggling in your walk
with Jesus? What can I specifically pray
for? And that means uh not only do they
have to be available, do they have to
be, you know, uh reliable? But that
means that I have to be um I have to be
willing to open up.
I have to be willing to share with
people where I'm failing and where I'm
falling short. And that's really really
hard because we want to come in here, we
want to look really good, and we want
everyone to think the best of us. But
that's not reality,
right? There there are places that I
still fail and struggle today.
And I have uh some reliable brothers who
check in on me that I can go to with
that information that are praying for me
a and checking in on me and making sure
that I'm staying true and faithful.
Uh reliability. This is a this is a
really big one. It it embraces
accountability. And I think this is
where most people uh back off, but it is
it is so important. You know, we love we
love the idea of iron uh sharpening
iron, right? Uh you know, two guys get
together, hey, iron iron sharpens, you
know, iron. But that sounds great,
but in in reality, iron sharpening iron
is not comfortable,
right? It isn't just this, hey, let's go
grab a, you know, a coffee and and chat
about life and then we we move on. No.
iron is going to sharpen iron. There is
friction. There is rubbing together.
There is working uh together but almost
against one another, right? Sharpening
the other person. It is rubbed hard and
friction is necessary. And I believe
that is the accountability
that that we're talking about. And in
the process of that, right, what
happens? Iron sharpens iron, right?
both tools come out uh better. They come
out sharper. They become they come out
more equipped for uh for their purpose.
And and I think in the same way, right,
iron sharpening iron, if I'm truthful
with you and you're truthful with me and
I hold you accountable and you hold me
accountable, if iron is sharpening iron,
we come out more equipped to take on
everything this life throws at us.
we come out more prepared to get through
uh life's challenges, but it takes
friction and it takes being real with
somebody in truth
with love. Uh reliability, and I love
this one, reliability encourages
progress. Uh you remind people where
they've where they've grown. You you
know, you you tell people how you can
see God working in their life. That is
so important. Uh you you tell people why
uh they need to keep going. Uh one of
our sisters, she shoots me a text after
every single time that I talk and it's
just a quick word of encouragement. You
guys probably know who I'm talking
about. Uh she sends cards quite often
and she doesn't realize even though I'm
only in my 30s and I don't know how many
cards I've ever sent in my life, but
that actually means a lot to me.
It means a lot to receive that card, uh
to receive that encouragement. Bethany
and I consistently uh receive cards from
several people here and and it's such a
blessing. We put them up on our um on
our fridge and I'll stop and I'll read
them and I go for a Diet Coke or
something. I I just reread it because it
encourages me. I might be having a
difficult day. I might be thinking, you
know what, I should not act very
lovingly or Christlike in this meeting
that's coming up. I go grab a drink. I
look at the card and I'm like, "No, you
know what? I do need to be like Christ.
I do need to reflect Christ. I can't
respond the way my flesh wants me to to
to respond to this." It pushes us to
stay faithful and to serve as we've been
uh called to serve. And I mean, just
last week, one of um one of our brothers
pulled me to the side, and it's a
brother that I have a lot of respect
for. and and he pulled me to the side
and he encouraged me and and he does not
realize how much uh that meant to me and
how much that has pushed me to keep
going. And so so we need I need to do a
better job of encouraging, right? But we
need to be encouraging one another uh
exhorting one another. Hebrews 10:25,
stirring up one another to love and to
good works. I believe it's in Hebrews 3,
encouraging one another so that we don't
drift. so we don't uh fall away and we
push people to keep going and keep being
faithful and keep trying to be uh like
Jesus.
And then lastly before we before we wrap
up, reliability walks into uh
difficulties. And this is when you know
when things when things get hard in
somebody's life, this is when they need
you the absolute most.
when when something happens uh and they
are just distraught
or when they've done something and they
know it's not the right thing, they
should not have done that. It's brought
backlash on them or backlash on their
family. That is when they need us uh the
most when they're struggling with a sin.
Don't just
ah I can't be around that.
No, invest. Walk in. Let's figure out
why they're struggling with it. How can
we hold them accountable? How can we be
there for them? How can we help them
not, you know, fall into the temptation?
Uh when people are doubting their faith,
right? That is not a time to walk away
from somebody.
We don't we don't uh
they're an unbeliever.
Let's spend time with them. Let's read
the Bible with them. Let's invest in
them and be reliable.
uh for them when life hits hard and
knocks them down. Uh right, we do not
disappear, but we should be showing up
in the time of need just like the Bible
says Jesus showed up in our time of need
while we were still sinners. Didn't wait
for us to get it right. Didn't wait for
us to be faithful. Didn't wait for us to
walk true. while we were sinners, he
showed up and now he is calling us to do
uh that same thing. It's not perfection.
It's not having all the answers, but
it's consistently showing up in
somebody's life to help them uh be like
Jesus. And I really wanted to turn this
around and we got one minute. Really
wanted to turn this around here at the
end because right, we can still be
reliable to those out there in the
world. We can be dependable. It's going
to help strengthen the message. it's
going to help um you know get them to to
actually take a serious right but but I
I believe I know brother Craftton and
and Miss Kathy they they have the um
right the the the perspective members
the new converts I think that's amazing
and what I hope to do at some point this
year or next year with the impact
ministry is I want to uh build off of
that right and actually I mean can we
set up some sort of mentorship ship or
disciplehip groups. Can we build off of
this first right starting phase of a new
convert and actually be intentional
about walking through life with people?
And I I'm telling you, when we are
intentional about walking through life,
I I used to joke churches always put
out, "Hey, come do life with us." Like,
"Oh, man, that just sounds so like,
okay, I don't know. I I don't I don't
love that that advertising. So, come do
life with us." But the reality is,
right, that's exactly what we're called
to do. That's what the New Testament
church did. They literally did life
together.
I know we're in a different culture and
a different uh geographic state, but we
are called to do life together. So, it's
not just about getting them into the
water. It's about doing life with them,
walking side by side as I try to follow
Jesus and I help guide them there. And
then I've got people as I'm trying to
follow Jesus, they're trying to follow
Jesus and they're helping guide me
there.
Disciples making disciples. So, we've
seen that God is faithful, that his love
never gives up on us. Uh, and because of
that, we're called to be reliable in one
another's uh lives. Uh, not just
bringing them to faith, but but walking
with them in it. Last bit of homework.
I've tried to give homework each week.
Uh, but I want I hope that you this week
will just try and find two to three
people. Maybe find somebody who is new
in their faith. Maybe through your
relationships, you know, somebody who's
struggling in their faith. And then
lastly, find somebody who is faithful
and you know they're doing a good job
and you know they're on track. And just
encourage them uh to do to keep going,
to be better, to be more like Jesus, to
keep going. Uh,
and then I want to encourage you within
this homework. Don't settle for
hope hopefully you're already thinking
about two or three people. Don't settle
for, oh, I'm going to try and do that
this week. Don't settle for, hey, if I
have time, I'll I'll I'll do that this
week. Be intentional. Schedule the time.
Block the time out. Um, be intentional.
Send the text. Make the phone call. And
then remember that anybody, right, can
show up once,
but a a disciple stays. A disciple
walks. And that's what we're called to
do. We're called to be reliable
disciples, faithful disciples of Jesus.
Let's pray and then we can go to lunch
and hopefully, Lord willing, a nap. Holy
Father, we love you so much. We're so
grateful for all that you've done for
us. We're grateful for all of your
blessings. Father, we ask that uh you
will just help us, Father, to um uh be
more intentional and more caring and
more loving to those around us, Father,
to the to the community around us. Uh
help us to u
just want to go out and share about who
you are and point people to you, point
people to your son. Uh and then, Father,
please just uh give us courage and
boldness to speak in truth. uh and and
and not to mince words, not to um
try and compromise on things, Father,
but to speak the truth clearly and
boldly. And Father, we believe that your
word uh will do what it says. And
Father, that that many will come to know
you. Uh Father, we just are grateful for
the opportunity to to be included in
your mission. Uh we're grateful for the
opportunity that that we have come to
know you and found salvation in your
son's name. And father, we're grateful
that you've uh are relying on us and
asking us and calling us to go out and
to spread that uh to more people. Uh but
father, you know, we need your help. And
so we ask not only today, but each and
every day that you'll help us to be
faithful disciples. Help us to uh walk
and to worship in spirit and in truth.
And father, just help us to be great
representations and reflections of of
who you are. We love you. We thank you
for Jesus. And it's in his name we pray.
Amen.
All right. God bless you guys. Hope to
see you this evening.
