a lot of time today for a class, but it
was well worth what we've done. Let me
just remind you u if you're interested
in uh Discovery Bible study, you like to
take a look at maybe one of those
studies and then you can go to their
website and get some more. I'm going to
leave these up here
just in case you haven't looked at that.
That was one of the first things we
looked at. You've already seen that we
looked at the three lessons course that
we do in prospective members class. So
don't uh ignore that. That's very
detailed. Uh so what the the study that
I've been taking you through is this
three lesson part that you see up there.
I gave you the yellow book last time and
we will went through it. Uh Lord willing
uh if we have next week we'll look at uh
this book. So it goes on the concept of
talking about Jesus.
But I'm telling you, we want to improve
these uh you know, really want to
improve these and make it into one book
that you can give away. So, that's
that's what's coming next hopefully,
Lord willing. But if you feel like you
know someone who their first language is
not English and they're struggling a
little bit, this study would be helpful
for them because this is the easy to
read and that's kind of the idea behind
this study. anybody you know that might
be Hispanic or uh Asian or something
from another country and English is not
their first language. This study is
supposed to help a little bit better
with that because it is that easyto read
version. Again, the authority of Jesus
uh establishing the authority of the
word of God particularly that we would
read that and accept it as it says it.
That's critical in a study with anybody
today because if you get into a Bible
study and then about halfway through
they run into something they don't
really like, they'll say, "Well, I don't
agree with that." And then now we're
down a rabbit hole of what authority do
you respect and it's too late. Then you
need to deal with that upfront. That's
an important part of a study with
anybody. The second one where it says
believers in Jesus, that's about the
church. We'll talk about that in just a
little bit here. We won't have a lot of
time on that. Uh if you will, I'd like
you to take the books that you have and
go through them. If you have a problem
answering any of those questions, I
don't think you will. I believe you'll
be able to fill in the blank for any of
those, but do it uh as a practice. I
want to talk about one segment in just a
moment. And then and that's on basically
the church. Uh how the church is uh
important, how it's supposed to be
united, some basic truths about the
church. There's some basic truths about
uh not just uh how we're organized with
elders and deacons, which by the way, if
you're not aware of this, most community
churches now are beginning to adapt that
more biblical path. Uh we have been that
way for eons, but not all the churches
out that way. A lot of them, you know,
the preachers, the boss, and then the uh
deacons or the second boss, and there
were no elders. That's no longer the
main thing that's happening. The main
thing that's happening now is they're
adopting the eldership role and then
deacons and the minister being an
employee. That is what we do and that's
what they're starting to do as well. Uh
so that's not a hard sale now like it
once was. That was a hard sale for a
long time cuz they didn't accept that
thing. Now uh then we get into the
worship. This is a key because they're
going to have issues with our worship
services. And you know as well as I do
that uh there's just some things we
don't do. We don't do instruments of
music and we don't do female leadership
in worship. There other places it's a
whole different story and I want to get
to the reason that that's true in just a
moment because there's some
argumentation I didn't know when I was
young and I'm going to improve the next
book. The next this book kind of deals
with it. The next book, hopefully we're
going to deal with it more thoroughly,
more easily understood so that there's
not a lot of questions about that. The
final book is on the cross, and we'll
get to that hopefully next time. But
anyway, if you haven't got a copy of all
of them, when we get through with all of
them, I'll make sure you get a copy of
all of them. Okay?
Okay. We've got about 10 to 15 minutes.
And so I want to spend about uh about 5
to 10 minutes if you will turn to page
uh seven. Now we we we will if you'll
look at the titles. So at the first we
cover the idea of why we should all be
united. That's critical. Okay. And
because if the church of Christ is
anything, we're a unity movement. We
believe that all churches should be
united. Now, that doesn't mean we all
have to absolutely 100%
speak the same thing about every little
thing. I mean, we're all Democrats and
Republicans and independents. So, I
mean, obviously, we don't speak the same
thing about everything. That's okay. So,
it's not that. It's that we mainly stick
to the same thing about the importance
to us about Jesus and the church and
what we're supposed to do to be saved,
that kind of thing. So, then the second
section starts on page four, uh, the
proper worship service of all believers.
And so we go through the five acts of
worship proving that those are what God
asked us to do. Those five things are
what we're told in the New Testament to
do in worship. It is not the whole Bible
that has been done in worship. There
have been other things done. If you
remember Cain and Abel, Cain and Abel
were offering sacrifices, one of animals
and one of the fruit of the ground. We
don't do that anymore. And so, just
because something's in the Old Testament
doesn't mean we're doing it anymore. And
what we learn through those events is
that what God asks us to do is what he
expects us to do in worship. Now, listen
to me. Everything is not handled at that
level. And that's the the reason that we
go into this normative and regulatory
principle. If you believe everything in
a Bible study is handled at the same I
mean in worship service is handled at
the same level as everything in life.
You misunderstand the Bible.
We do not follow that rule that way. And
you you just hadn't thought it through.
If you think we do, I guarantee you you
don't follow the rule. You may think you
follow that rule if it isn't authorized.
We don't do it, but you don't dayto-day
in the sense of absolutely command. Now,
we do what's commanded,
but not everything that's commanded is a
limited command.
But when it comes to worship, it is. And
let me let me walk you through that.
Look on page seven. Let's walk through
that. I want to take you before we read
uh seven if you would. Let's go to
Romans chapter 4. I want to show you I'm
not making something up here. A lot of
people have never studied this normative
principle versus the regulatory
principle. It ain't maybe in the Bible.
It's the Bible. It just isn't called
that in the Bible. Like the trinity is
not called the trinity in the Bible, but
it's in the Bible. Okay. Look at Romans
4:15 and then we'll go to Romans 5 and
verse 13. So, it's clearly taught right
here. Look what Romans 4 verse
15. Romans 4:15. I got to find it here.
All right. Because the law brings about
wrath. But where there is no law, there
is no transgression. You see that? where
there isn't a law, if God hasn't said
yay or nay on a thing, or there isn't a
principle that he's taught, a command
that he's given, or a clear regulatory
example that he's given on how to
behave, you do what you think you should
do based upon general teaching. There
isn't a specific commandment, and you
cannot sin on that, especially if
there's nothing taught on it. So, in
other words, some of you are wearing
clothing that's different from others of
you, right? Look around you. Does
everybody have a tie on? I don't know if
you can go to heaven without a tie, but
if you think you can, listen to me. If
you think you can, I hope you'll repent
one day. No, but really, seriously,
obviously, we don't believe that. I
mean, but but look at me. When do you
see me on Sunday morning without a tie,
right? Some of you are old school like
me, right? Oh, I see you, brother. Old
school like me. I'm old school. I'm
sorry. I can't walk in here without a
towel on. I just not on Sunday morning.
But that's not in the Bible. Right.
Right. So, we're not making that into
scripture. It's not. We're not going to
do that. Okay. And so, you can't start
making up rules. You don't make up rules
that God didn't make up. So, but if
there's no command on it, you do what
you think you should do. Right? Go to
the next one. Romans 5:13.
Now the principle here, this is called
the normative rule. Romans 5 and:e 13,
it says just a chapter over. For until
the law was in the world and sin is not
imputed, where there is no law. There is
no com guilt of sin where there isn't a
law that says it's wrong to do this. If
God doesn't say it's wrong to do it, it
ain't wrong to do it.
And you think you don't follow that.
Some of you,
all right, fill up your car with, you
know, the first grade and some fill up
with the second and some of the third.
And where is that in the Bible? Where is
it in the Bible that we sit facing
forward? I mean, let's be honest, unless
it is specific. So, when it comes to
worship though, it's a different thing.
Whatever God has authorized, that's
acceptable. What he has not authorized
is forbidden. That's worship. So when
God says something about worship in the
New Testament particularly that is
called the regulatory principle. We
don't use that rule on all of life. We
simply don't. We simply don't. Now let's
let's look through these scriptures and
I'll show you what I'm talking about now
in a different way. So that's absolutely
in the Bible. Now we're on page seven.
It says Cain uh after stating what the
uh two principles are what's not
expressly commanded is forbidden or of
worship what is not expressly forbidden
is acceptable. So in daily life what
isn't expressly commanded is forbidden.
No in worship what is not expressly
commanded is forbidden.
But in worship what is expressly
forbidden is acceptable. No. You can't
have it that way. Because if it's not
expressly forbidden, that's daytoday.
That's normative principle. Listen to
Hebrews 11:4. Cain and Abel both offered
sacrifices to God. But Abel offered a
better sacrifice to God because he had
faith. And he said he was pleasing with
what Abel offered. And so God called him
a good man because he had faith. And
Abel died. But through this his faith,
he is still speaking. So this teaches
that in the worship of God to please
him, it must be of faith. So in other
words, there must be some scripture on
it. So that's what that's the whole
principle in worship. We do in worship
only what we are definitely authorized
to do. So it's in the Old Testament. No.
New testament whatever is authorized to
do. Does this forbid it in all of life?
If we don't do it in worship, can we do
it out there? Out there it's not. That's
not what's regular. That's the normative
principle. Use a different rule. But in
worship, and here's where we get the
proof of it. Leviticus chapter 10, this
is the Bible, folks. Then Aaron's son
Nadab and Abahu made a mistake. They
took their incense dishes and put some
of the fire of incense in them, but they
did not use the fire that was on the
altar. They took fire from sun place and
brought it to the Lord. This was what he
had uh this was not what he had
commanded. So fire came from the Lord
and destroyed Naab and Abahu and they
died there in front of the Lord. This
teaches that in the worship of God to
please him, it must be what he has
commanded. He commanded us to sing. He
commanded us to pray. He commanded us to
take the communion. He commanded us to
give on the first day of the week. He
commanded to study the word of God. He
commanded all of those. Anything beyond
that, if God hasn't commanded it for
worship,
you have no right to do it. That's it.
That's New Testament teaching. Let's
read again. I uh for the sake of time, I
don't have really time to go further.
I'm going to have to stop right there.
So, that's the idea. Has anybody do you
understand what I'm trying to talk
about? Oh, by the way, I need to remind
you. Uh lads to leaders, there's one
other person that's missed out up there.
Uh Haley Fonte Claus, she was also in
one of the leaders up there. And I just
want to throw that out because I'm
fixing to shift gear here. So has
anybody got a question? The difference
between normative principle which is for
all of life in all of life what your
rule you use every day is if it isn't
forbidden in scripture you can do it.
That's the rule you follow whether you
know it or not.
It's what you follow every day. If God
didn't say don't do it. If he didn't say
that's bad. If he didn't give you an
example of how bad that is, it's okay.
There's no forbidding of it. But when it
comes to worship, and we could go
through all this, but we don't have time
in worship. If God didn't authorize it,
it's automatically forbidden.
That's it. God didn't say anything. All
right. When he told us, he told us to
take the Lord's supper, right? Bread and
fruit of the vine. Hamburgers and
milkshake. Say anything about that? I
love hamburgers and milkshake.
Not in the Lord's supper.
Okay? Do you understand now? That's how
simple that is. So if you say, "Well, I
don't understand about instruments
music." Old Testament. That's right.
It's there. No question. New Testament.
You think he didn't know about
instruments music? Who wrote the New
Testament? You think Rex Duden wrote the
New Testament? The Lord God wrote the
New Testament. Gave it to us.
Why did he skip it? It doesn't matter
whether you like it or agree with it or
think this is a good idea. It would have
been better to go ahead and instruments
music. You haven't got one single
command, example, or necessary inference
to imply that we're supposed to have
instruments music in our worship today.
You don't have it. They didn't do it for
a thousand years. There's the real
truth. So here's what we conclude
because he killed people over this
principle. If you do it different, you
can die.
Only in worship. He doesn't do that
dayto day. You know, you ride in a ox
cart or you ride with a horse. There was
no killing people because you rode in
the wrong kind of vehicle. Okay? You can
ride a Toyota or you can ride a
whatever. Okay? You can do whatever you
want. If it isn't forbidden, it's
allowed. It's authorized. That's
dayto-day. In worship, if it isn't
authorized,
you should treat it as if it's forbidden
because people got in trouble when they
didn't.
There's the rule. And that's why we
don't allow
people to play instruments of music in
our worship assembly. Does that mean
it's wrong? No. In the normative prison,
we do whatever you want to out out of
this worship. But in worship
and we are told specifically that women
aren't to lead the services
not once but we're twice we're told that
for directly now you can say well that
was just entire you say whatever you
want that's what's in the Bible so
that's in this study didn't have time to
deal with it okay I got like three
minutes
this is a canned version okay y'all
don't get the book and read through it
I'm sorry I'm sorry I'm going so quick
okay So, if you have Did you get your
sheets again? Tips. Okay, we're on
number three. Tips. Here we are. Number
three. Here's what our scripture today.
I don't think I'm going to have to Can
you go to the end of the slides or
something? Because I didn't go through
any of these today. We didn't have time
for that. Uh, I did make them, but show
you that I made them. Just so you know
that I made them. That's not me. That's
I don't know what that is. Oh, that's
the end of it. Oh, go back one. Can you
go back one? Yeah, there we are. Read
it.
Oh, yeah. That's it. Therefore, since is
that is Yeah, this is the 19th.
Therefore, since we have this ministry,
have we received, so we do not lose
heart, but we have renounce the hidden
things of shame, not walking in
craftiness, nor handling the word of
God. See, listen to me very carefully.
This is really important. Soulwinning, I
don't care how many you baptize, it
ain't right if you twist them into it.
You don't force them into it. I don't
know what that is. One of y'all send me
a text message. You don't force them
into it. You don't talk them until
midnight to force them to do it. We
don't handle the word of God
deceitfully. Period. If they never obey
the gospel, okay? But I love them. They
need to do it. They've got to do it.
Quit trying to twist people's arm. We
don't do that. We don't twist people's
arm. We don't make people do anything.
They must choose on their own. And if
it's not done that way, it's evil.
It's evil. Keep reading. Uh but by
manifestation of truth, commending
ourselves to every man's conscience in
the sight of God. But even if our gospel
is veiled, is veiled to those who are
perishing, whose mind the God of this
age has blinded, who do not believe,
lest the light of the gospel of the
glory of Christ, who's in the image of
God should shine on them. For we do not
preach ourselves. Quit talking about
yourself. Well, I know a lot of people
think, "Oh, we need to talk more about
oursel." No, listen to me. I know people
think that that's the way you win souls.
Let me tell you what wins souls. Listen
to me real clearly. I'm not saying you
don't have a testimony. I'm not saying
you can't share your testimony. I'm just
telling you that ain't what wins souls.
What wins souls is this thing right
here. It is the word of God. It's the
power of the word of God that wins
souls. And if it's the story that I tell
them that they're not one of his yet,
they're one of mine. They're following
me. And they don't need to follow me.
They need to follow him. But keep
reading. It says, "But Christ Jesus the
Lord, and ourselves, your bond servant
for Jesus' sake, for it is the God who
commanded light to shine out of darkness
who shone in our hearts to give the
light of the knowledge of the glory of
God in the face of Christ Jesus." It's
it yes, we're the vessel that shares it.
Verse seven, but we have this treasure
and other than vessels, the ex that the
excellency of the power may be of God
and not of us. And that's the end of it
today. Sorry, that's the lesson. It must
come from him
and we must make the focus on him.
That's the reason Jesus authority, Jesus
believers, Jesus cross, put the
spotlight on Jesus. Okay, that's the way
you do evangelism. All right. God, have
a lovely day. Sin no more.
