So
this is the story of a
farmer
who becomes a preacher and he's from
Judah
but he is primarily preaching toward the
northern Israel and some other of his
neighbors. Uh Amos 7 14 and 15 says,
"Then Amos answered and said of Amosiah,
who's a priest that wasn't the friend of
the Lord, I was no prophet, nor was I a
son of a prophet, but I was a
sheepreeder." So he's not just a sheep
razor, but a sheep breeder. Obviously s
selling sheep and a tender of sycamore
fruit. Interesting. Zakius would have
liked him, I guess. Verse 15. Then the
Lord took me as I followed the flock.
And the Lord said to me, "Go prophesy to
my people Israel." So yes, he was a
shepherd, but he was more than that. He
was a sheep breeder, and he was a fig
grower. And apparently, he's from the
town Takcoa.
And uh repentance was what he was
seeking from northern tribe of Israel.
And he was hoping to I want to got a
little ahead of myself. He was hoping
obviously to see some change. But
northern Israel was quite self-satisfied
and it was an unjust nation at this
point and some of the neighbors as we'll
see in a moment. believe this is from
the 8th century BC which the date is
somewhere between and I know it sounds
almost ridiculously accurate but from
760 to 753 that's pretty accurate during
the reign of King Isaiah uh king of
Judah and the king uh Jeroboam I of
Israel uh if you want to read more about
Isaiah you can go to 2 Chronicles 26 and
Isaiah chapter 6 was
good king. He was king from 792.
U and so as a result he was king for 16
years. That places him at about uh
somewhere 48 to 52 years old during that
time period that seven or eight years.
Uh and and Isaiah mainly did what was
right in the eyes of the Lord, but he
got puffed up with himself. When he was
younger, he he went along with what
Zachariah uh advised him to do. But then
he became proud. He was good at making
war machines and uh successful at war
and u as a result he thought he was good
enough to go into the temple and burn
incense. You may remember that story and
the priest came in and told him he
wasn't supposed to be in there and
before they got through I mean he wasn't
receiving that well he got angry and
then he was stricken with leprosy in his
forehead and he was a leper the rest of
his life. that was the king during this
period of uh Israel. I mean Judah,
excuse me. Uh the the structure of Amos
is kind of like this. It focuses on
God's judgment of neighboring nations.
We'll talk about that in just a moment.
And then the sins of Israel and the
northern kingdom and some series of
warnings that are given there and then a
future restoration which is messianic to
some degree. So, we're looking at three
parts. Here we go. Number one. First,
the the roar of the Lord. Now, it that
looks rather simple. It's a little more
complicated and so you just kind of
listen along. It says, "The Lord roars
from Zion." And uh we didn't reread the
whole thing, but this the roaring lion.
This is God speaking from Zion against
the sins particularly of the surrounding
nations including uh Israel and the
north and the neighboring nations. Uh
there's an interesting thing that goes
on if you read chapter 1, chapter 2, a
even uh pretty much that's it. Chapter
1, chapter 2. Uh it's a judgment against
Damascus, Gaza, uh Ty, Edom, Ammon,
Moab, Judah, and then Israel. In each
case, it says to them for three and for
four transgressions. Now this sounds
like a tipping point and it is to some
degree although you can make too much
about these numbers but let me give you
the history of the numbers. So to
Damascus it says for three and even for
four and then Gaza three and and for
four and Ty three and for four Edom
three and for four you get the message.
So the idea according to the rabbis
uh go this way. There were three for
three sins. The three sins primarily
usually talked about when these kind of
things are happening are idolatry,
adultery and murder. And all of them are
worthy of death.
Now they also taught that a man could
commit a sin worthy of death and could
be forgiven of that. You didn't
necessarily have to kill him. There are
ways around that. They could allow men
to pay off, do things, and you can be
forgiven. So, a man's sin is forgiven
the uh when he does a bad thing first
time, and then maybe the second time,
and then maybe the third time, but by
the fourth time, all bets are off and
he's going to he's going to be penalized
very seriously. So, that seems to be the
teaching behind what you're seeing in
this text. probably isn't you probably
not to make too much out of the numbers
but it is an interesting repetition.
It's a very poetic way of dealing with
sin that uh the prophet Amos was dealing
with. Now the guilt of Judah and Israel
are the same three and four
transgressions. And in the this case
what we're dealing with is
transgressions against the poor. The
poor were being mistreated and then uh
there was moral decay. uh just it gave
an instance. Obviously, it didn't cover
all the sins, but it talked about
probably the worst one in that is a uh a
man and his father having relations with
the same woman. And then uh the
rejection of God's prophets was one of
the big points that have been made in
that section. So that's chapter 1 and
chapter 2. Um we move now to chapter 3
through six. Now chapter 3 through six
is really it's kind of like a series of
sermons. In fact, I will tell you this
is a famous area for gathering sermons.
Uh there a lot of sermons have come out
of these chapters. Okay? And there's
some famous statements in here that have
often been used in the rhetoric of
preaching. Um Amos 3 and:8 is not one of
those, but it it kind of sets the page
when it says that a lion has roared who
will not fear. The Lord God has spoken.
Who can but prophesy? Who can but
preach? It's got to be proclaimed is the
mo point that's being made. So let me
walk through these pretty much four that
you see up here. Uh here here the word
of the Lord is the way the old King
James would have said it. So, Israel's
special privilege and and this is
background of this and if you read it,
you'll see what I'm talking about.
Israel's special privilege of having
been in a relationship, an intimate
relationship with God the Father, having
received the law, having had people
speak to them about the word of God,
means that they had a special
responsibility.
You need to hear that, church.
That's a message to you.
Uh it that's that's a serious message.
So it's a message here. And so it meant
that they had a serious responsibility
and an inescapable judgment upon them if
they're not true to it. It it goes to
the uh second Peter where it says it
would have been better not to have known
the way of righteousness than after
you've known it to turn from the holy
commandment. So you you got to
understand intimate with with God which
is ignored makes the worst kind of
people and the most deserving of
punishment.
So while you are blessed
you turn from it
you're in trouble.
It's serious. Amos 3:es 1 and two using
that term hear the word this word says
hear this word that the Lord has spoken
against you oh children of Israel
against the whole family which I brought
up from the land of Egypt saying you
only have I known
have I know of all the families of the
earth therefore I will punish you for
all your iniquities that's that's the
point you had that relationship with me
and you've turned your back on me that's
serious
then this next one is prepare to meet
thy God. That's been preached on many,
many, many times, especially used at the
end of sermons even. Prepare to meet thy
God. And it comes from Amos 4:12 where
it says, "Therefore, thus will I do to
you, oh Israel, because I will do this
to you. Prepare to meet your God, O
Israel." That's New King James. Uh so
God's past chastening plagues had failed
to bring Israel to repentance. And Amos
points this out. This had happened but
you didn't repent. This happened but you
didn't repent. This happened but you
didn't repent. Does that several times
through that section
uh in chapter five now it's seek the
Lord and live or seek the Lord while you
can. Amos 5:4 says for thus says the
Lord to the house of Israel seek me and
live. So it's a call to abandon this
empty ritual stuff that they'd been a
part of to hate e evil truly turn from
it and establish true justice in this
chapter is also let me point this out
one of the famous texts that was used
over and over again by Martin Luther
King. You remember Martin Luther King.
So Martin Luther King used chapter 5 and
verse 24. In fact, any of you ever go to
Montgomery, Alabama, you can go to uh
not just the church where he preached
at, but up on the hill there is a place
there that it commemorates uh some of
the civil rights movement and they have
a waterfall pouring over uh some stone
there. It's actually quite beautiful and
this scripture is actually recorded on
it and it says, "Let justice roll roll
down or run down like waters and
righteousness is a mighty stream." The
idea was is that justice for everybody
should be done. And that's in this text
as well. That's chapter 5 and verse 24.
Again, it was a sermon uh that's been
used many times. And then of course, woe
to the complacent. How many sermons have
been used that way? Amos 6:1. Woe to you
who are at ease. Woe to you who are at
ease in Zion. Heard that preached. And
and trust Mount Samaria. uh notable
persons in the chief uh natron to whom
the house of Israel comes. Now this also
this text has been used probably not
appropriately but chapter 6 and verse 5
it talks about the instrument in
instruments of music that were invented
by David uh in that text that's really
not talking about for worship and that
makes it what's bad it's talking about
people who were so wealthy they had
plenty of idle time and so they invent
for themselves because they're wealthy
instruments ensive music and they could
just lay back on their ivory beds and
enjoy themselves. And so he's really
this section is really warning uh that's
being directed against the proud and
those who lived in luxury and trying to
get them not to be complacent and ignore
the fact that they were in spiritual
ruin if they didn't do something
immediately. So that's that section.
It's a whole lot of sermon in material
in there if you ever end up in the
ministry. Okay, here we go. So, this is
the restoration of the Lord. The whole
thing that we ultimately want to happen,
but it's a little more complicated than
that through this. So, uh chapters 7-9.
What you're going to run into is is
chapter 7 is uh well, let me wait on
there. Amaziah is plays kind of
prominent in chapter 7, though. And
because he opposes uh Amos, he he's an
idolatrous priest of Bethl. So he's one
of these that have become a priest that
isn't a priest. He's not a priest. He's
not of the descendant of Aaron. No, he's
just one that Jeroboam and the family
that Jeroboam had placed in are now
priests. He's a priest over worshiping
the golden calf. So he's a Baal priest.
That's what he is. He's not one of
God's. And so he gets on to Amos. He
thinks Amos is totally out of place.
Should not be doing this. How dare he be
telling the leaders of Israel that they
shouldn't be living this way. That they
shouldn't be doing this. And that
they're going to be destroyed. If you
suggest they're going to be destroyed,
you need to be dealt with because now
you're just lying against uh uh what God
would want. And so he kind of tried to
ban Amos from prophesying against
Israel. Didn't really work that good,
but I mean we don't have a long book
here. Uh and then just so you know this,
an interesting story behind Amaziah is
first kings 13. If you want to, this is
not biblical. This is what the Jewish
rabbis teach. They teach that they think
this Amziah is the one we don't have a
name of in first kings 13 11-2.
And in that story, if you recall, a
young prophet from down in Israel was
sent up to the northern kingdom to
prophesy against what they were doing in
literally uh making sacrifices of
children to Molech and some of that and
that their their bones are going to be
burned on the very altar, which did
happen. But what ends up happening is
this young prophet after he prophesies,
he was told by the Lord, "Don't you stay
up there. Don't you spend the night.
Don't you eat anything. You get out of
there. After you get through
prophesying, you hightail it home. You
just keep going until you get home."
Well, this old prophet supposedly comes
up to him and says, "Uh, God has told me
that you've walked a long way. You've
come up here a long way. You've done a
good job. You're supposed to come to my
house. I'm supposed to feed you. He
says, "No, no, no. I can't do that. God
told me not." No, no, no. God told me to
tell you, "No, you are. You're supposed
to come to my house and and I'm supposed
to feed you." And and you can even spend
the night. And so he comes, he believes
him. He goes to his house. While they're
sitting there, the old prophet actually
does get a word and tells him that uh
you know, basically everything I told
you was a lie and you're going to die.
You're not going to make it back home
because that's what God had told him
originally. And so as he jumps up and he
he leaves and a lion takes him down and
the lion and the donkey that he was
riding is on the side of the road and
everybody that passed by they laying
side by side and the body of the man of
God is is there
crazy story might not be a part of this
but it's an interesting story and it
that's what most the the rabbis think if
you recall again the first scripture
that I read is from this section
That's Amos 7 14-15. Uh then Amos
answered and said to Amaziah, you
remember that? I read that at the very
beginning. So that indicates from this
text. So the vision of the judgment is
the first part. That's chapter 7 through
chapter 9:10, which is the largest
portion of this what we're talking
about. In verse six, it says, "So the
Lord relented concerning this." And what
he's talking about there, what I'm using
it for is so that you understand what
his prophecy uh he saw in his vision.
First, he saw locust coming up and they
were going to devour Israel, right, as
punishment for their sins. But he
prayed, now this is Amos. He prayed,
"Lord, you know, forgive them uh and
forgive poor Jacob." And so the Lord
relented. That's where this comes from.
And then he saw fire burning. It's going
to burn them. And he prayed, "Lord,
forgive them."
So the illustration of the fire, he he
forgave them. He relented. And then the
plum line, which is supposed to show you
exactly the the the truth, but the Lord
relented from any kind of punishment.
That's chapter 7. Chapter 8, we see
another illustration. The illustration
is a summer fruit basket. Okay? and he
talks about uh the fruit are ripe and so
they're he's saying that Israel was ripe
for judgment as a nation and so were
these other places that we looked at a
while ago. So basically uh one of the
interesting things that come up in this
chapter is chapter 8 verse 9. In chapter
8 verse9, there appears to be a subtle
reference, a prophetic reference to the
cross of Christ and the day of darkness.
And then chapter 8 verse 11 uses that
famous passage you may have heard before
that there's a famine coming and it's
not a famine for food or a thirst for
water. It'll be a famine for hearing the
words of the Lord. And people would go
here and there across the world and not
be able to actually know if they've
heard the word of the Lord. That's a
scary thought, isn't it? And then uh
chapter nine. So now we're in chapter
nine. Chapter nine is uh the Lord
standing by the altar. I don't know. I'm
a little fuzzy here. So I'm a little
confused exactly where he's at, but it's
he's striking the sanctuary. I assume
he's not necessarily talking about the
temple, but he may be. It uh obviously
to me I I saw it as a as the pagan uh
altar, but I don't know. I'm not that
skilled right here, and I'm just being
real honest now. So then the then you
see the promise of the restoration. So
there's the vision of judgment. God's
bringing judgment, but he's still being
merciful. But he's going to bring
judgment, but he's still being merciful.
It's going to get dark, but he's still
being merciful. He's going to destroy
the sanctuary, but he's still going to
be merciful. But then there's the
promise of the restoration, and that
kicks in. And just right at the end of
the book, uh verses 11 through 15 of
chapter 9, uh verse 11 says, "On that
day, I will raise up the tabernacle of
David, which has fallen down, and repair
its damages. I will raise up its ruins
and rebuild it as in the days of old."
It's one of the passages that have been
famously used during the restoration
movement. I don't even know if our
people anymore remember the restoration
movement. We are part of it, but I'm
sometimes I'm not sure how much people
know about it anymore. And so the
restoration movement often used this
passage along with several others as the
restoration of of the will of God uh for
the house of David, which we're a part
of by the way because we are uh the
brother of Jesus now. Anyway, uh so
raising up the fallen tent of David and
the future blessing uh for God's
remnant. All right, so that's that's
pretty much the book. Uh if you want to
see the summary, there it is. The roar
of the Lord. So the L the Lord's really
upset, the rhetoric of the Lord. It's
quite a few sermons that very pointed at
them and then the restoration of the
Lord. He doesn't even though he's going
to do all this and he's very upset. He's
wanting to relent and he wants to
restore them.
Romans 11 and verse 22. Uh I want to
kind of shift a little bit here. Romans
11 and verse 22 is a passage. Uh this is
the easy to read uh version. It says,
"Note then the kindness and the severity
of God." I know you if you're been
around a little while, you've heard this
scripture preached on. Note then the
kindness and the severity of God.
severity toward those who have fallen,
but God's kindness to you provided you
uh continue in his goodness, otherwise
you too will be cut off. So, I want to
look at a couple other translations.
Here's the way it it also says it in a
couple others. Uh the Net it says,
"Notice the kindness and harshness of
God." Um consider the kindness and the
sternness of God. NIV. Notice how God is
both kind and severe. NLT.
Stay alert to these qualities of gentle
kindness and ruthless severity that
exist side by side in God. MSG. That may
be a little far, but we are told that
God is holy.
Holy. Holy. Holy. That's used twice in
the scriptures. God is holy. And I and I
think maybe we sometimes forget that.
And I think sometimes that's the reason
we make light of our sins, but we think
other people's sins are really bad,
but we make light of our we don't want
to talk about our sins. Tony Evans, who
I'm not a big fan of, but he made this
statement and I thought it was really
good. He says, "Holiness is the
centerpiece of God's attributes. Of all
the things God is, at the center of his
being, God is holy. Never in the Bible
is God called love, love, love." That's
not the way it's said, even though he's
called love. Or eternal, eternal,
eternal, even though he is eternal. Or
truth, truth, truth. But on this aspect
of his character, God has laid the most
stress. Holy, holy, holy. That's
stressing the character and that's not
done the other way on the other topics.
I think our struggle when you consider
this concept. I think our struggle is
with God's severity.
I mean, that's a lot of what this book
about, that God's upset, he's going to
destroy some people.
We're upset a little bit with God's
severity and judgment. And why why does
that bother us? So, and I think it stems
from our inability to see our own
darkness.
I don't know that we do.
I heard of a man who worked with
children who lived in the sewer system
in South America way back years ago. I
can't imagine that. children living in
the sewer system in South America.
But he used to go into the sewers and
try to help those children to get out
and have a life. Now imagine if you'd
been one of these children
virtually blind, stay underground in
pipes underneath a filthy city,
barely can see because you spend all
your time virtual darkness.
filthy through living in the waste that
comes down from all the homes above you.
Imagine that and the darkness and the
filth. And this man is offering you a
chance to get out.
At first, you jump at it. Absolutely.
I want out of there.
Then as you're coming out of the sewers,
your eyes become accustomed to the light
and suddenly
you see your state
excrement
all over your clothes.
It's in your hair.
It's everywhere
because the light's coming. You're
trying to brush it off, but it's not
brushing off. The stains are there.
The nearer you get to the light coming
up from that toward the entrance of the
tunnel,
the dirtier you appear to yourself
and you start to shy away from coming
out. What are you waiting on? Until I
get clean.
I'll come out when I'm clean enough to
come out.
The problem is you can't even see it to
know when you would be clean.
&gt;&gt; You wouldn't even know it. You're so
covered in the nastiness of it and you
can't clean yourself in the dark and you
can't see what you need to do. So, you
can't be made clean
until you come out of the filth
and you're washed
and then all of a sudden you can see the
difference.
Maybe this is our problem.
Maybe God's holiness
makes us recoil at our own filth.
Maybe that's why we struggle with coming
out of our sins
and we see it too severe. God's too
severe. Or maybe what it is is we're
just severely dirty.
And God's not severe.
We're just severely dirty
this week. And I got it coming up in a
sermon. I won't tell you what it is
right now.
I've realized I've been sinning about
something didn't even know was a sin.
I'll explain it to you in a couple of
weeks, Lord willing. I'm not going to do
it right now and then take us another
half hour.
But I didn't know. I didn't even know
that was a sin.
How many of those do I have?
How many do you have?
I've been preaching 50 years. I didn't
know that was a sin.
Don't look at me funny. How many do you
have?
&gt;&gt; How much mud and muck and excrement do
you have sticking to you right now?
Because you've not been saved by the
blood of Christ. We've got a brother
here as clean as he can be saved today.
Praise the Lord.
The Lord will roar.
But who wants the Lord to roar at me? Do
you want the Lord to roar at you? I
don't.
But here it is. Behold the
goodness
and the severity of God.
Severity is great if you understand what
he's trying to offer you is goodness
and cleanness. So, we want to be
restored just as it is in this text to
be restored. And we know how to do that
here. Believe, repent, confess, be
baptized. We know all that. We saw it
today. That's great. But it's not
enough. It's whether or not we want to
get out of the sewer. There it is.
I'll come when I'm clean.
No, you won't. You got to come to be
clean. If you're here tonight, you want
to be clean. We'll do everything we can
to help
