Now, I I believe that one of the best
ways that you can learn is by asking
questions. My first grade teacher, Miss
Bobo, we were actually related. I know
it sounds like a clown name, but that's
actually one of the extensions of our
family. And Miss Bobo, always said in
the very first grade, I'll never forget
this, ask questions. Ask questions. You
want to learn something, you need to ask
questions. And so, asking uh questions
is one of the best ways of learning.
fosters curiosity, maybe a deeper
understanding, uh get you engaged in the
subject, make you move maybe more toward
memorizing what you need to either by
wrote or critical thinking. Uh it gives
you an open-ended clear view of things,
whether it be specific or general. Uh
and it helps you in the sequence. One of
the most important things is to learn
things in sequence. I was talking to my
son-in-law just the other night about
that. One of the things that I'd highly
recommend for those of you who think you
know the Bible pretty good is that you
learn the timeline of the Bible. And
when all the books fall in place, if you
could learn the timeline and then when
you get through doing that, learn the
timeline of what's covered in the books
like Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. If
you know what was in each chapter, a
summary of that, that give you a big
handle on how to handle the scriptures
maybe better. So how and why questions
are always important to effective
learning. Uh you got to be an active
listener. If you really want to learn
something, asking questions is great. Um
and so um it would help all of us if we
all became better question askers. Um
and we'd all learn more. But it's also a
method of teaching. One of the best ways
to teach is to ask the person you're
trying to teach questions. It's the
Socratic method uh named after Socrates.
It's uh the other name for it is
question formulation technique QFT. But
basically it shifts from direct
instruction. The sage on the stage
telling you stuff to uh fostering active
learning by yourself. uh one of the
things you will happen to you if you
continue in higher education once you
get past uh a bachelor's degree you're
often pushed to do more research and in
research you have to figure out how to
find the answer yourself and that's a
good thing for all of us. Uh most of the
learning in any of your fields that you
know happens because you pursued it and
not because you were taught it in
college. Uh so promoting uh student
engagement by dialogue is a really good
way to teach other people. Uh instead of
this uh just self-directed learning uh
you build uh their learning by helping
them to think through what it is they
might believe asking open-ended
questions of why and how and what if.
Uh, and I think students, all students
begin to connect better with the ideas
once they figure it out. So rather than
just telling them what they should
believe, it's better if you figure it
out yourself because it sticks with you
better. So questions are good. And so
it's true if you're trying to win souls.
Questions are really important. You're
more likely to win a soul if you'll ask
questions rather than just kind of
preach at them all the time. Make them
think through the material. Charles
Hadlin Spurgeon he said if we would just
cultivate the art of asking questions we
would find that gospel opportunities
will naturally arise in the flow of
conversation. So you ask them the
questions and make them think through
it. So learning usually begins with
learning the right answers and then you
have to learn the right questions and
finally we learn which questions are
worth asking. So that's kind of the
thing. Here's our questions tonight.
First one is
is there any evidence for dinosaurs in
the Bible and how can we explain the
existence of their fossils? There is no
evidence of dinosaurs in the Bible. So
modern uh discovery of dinosaurs
is an interesting concept looking for it
in the Bible. Uh it's not possible to do
that. And then I'll explain further in
this moment. In 1677, Robert Plot uh
described what he found. He found a bone
fragment that they believed was a femur.
Uh later it was identified as a
dinosaur, but at the time there was no
such thing as a dinosaur. And so what
I'm trying to suggest to you is um in
1820
they found a fossil of an auanadon. U
but it was not named until later.
So auadons didn't exist. In 1824, you
you understand what I'm saying in a
minute. In 1824, the first dinosaurs
scientifically supposedly described was
later named Megalosaurus
uh by William Buckland. That's in 1824.
But it was not until 1842 that
Donosauria
was first used. Terrible lizard. And
that was the beginning because it was
coined by Richard Owen. So, it's
impossible to find dinosaurs in the
Bible since the word didn't exist until
1842 and the Bible was written much
earlier than that. So, if you're looking
for the word dinosaur, it's kind of like
looking for the word car in the Bible.
You're not going to find the word car in
the Bible. You're not going to find the
word airplane in the Bible. You're not
going to find TV or internet or or cable
or microwave in the Bible. So, those
things didn't exist yet. Dinosaurs
didn't exist until 1842.
Okay. So, however, Peter Burgal uh the
Elder in 1562
had a painting. If you haven't seen this
painting, you should look at this
painting. This is from 1562.
1562. That was before my birth. 1562.
It's called The Suicide of Saul. Look it
up. Suicide of Saul. In that picture, if
you look in the background, there are
men riding long necked creatures that
resemble dinosaurs.
That's in a 1562
uh in a petroglyph. That's a chipping
marking on rock.
uh in Utah at the Natural Bridges
National Monument, the Anastasia uh
people, the Indians who lived there, uh
scrolled a petroglyph on a wall there
and if you take a picture of it, you
look it up, looks like a bronosaurus.
Um
there is a belief in what's called aopen
that exists to this day. Have you ever
heard this? See, y'all don't follow
these weird things. I follow all kinds
of weird things. So, the ropen
supposedly exists in New Guinea.
The ropen, if it exists, they ropen
means demon flyer.
It's a crypted. Yes. But it's been seen
by lots of people who live in New
Guinea. Um, and it's a proaur. It looks
like looks like a living proaur
flying dinosaur.
The African dinosaur which is supposedly
lives in the Congo River basin. Mole
membod
like dinosaur. Looks kind of like a
little bronosaurus if you will.
Is that possible? Well, scientists will
tell you no. It's not possible. It
couldn't be in that picture. So,
whatever that was in that picture wasn't
them. Whatever the petetroglyph is, it
couldn't be because we know there's no
way to know when dinosaurs cease to be
on the planet. There's no way to know
that. Um, you can come up with any
theory. You might say the flood,
whatever. Okay? There's no such thing as
dinosaurs in the Bible. What's in the
Bible
are
the following. Well, let me go back a
little more history first. the
prehistoric era of China and dragons.
This history starts in six 6,200 BC to
2900 BC. The Zing Lang Hua culture of
Chahai site. The zumorphic dragon-like
motifs are in stone there.
They chiseled them into stone. That's
somewhere around 6,200
BC. Yang soul culture of the fifth
millennial BC has a dragon statue uh
discovered in Hanan in 1987.
It looks like a dragon dinosaur like
thing. The Hong Shang culture dating
somewhere between 4,700 BC to 2900 BC
was has the earliest depiction of a
stylized C-shaped jade dragon. Are you
saying dragons existed?
I'm not saying anything.
I'm going to tell you what I do know.
From somewhere between 100 and 137,
maybe up as late as 300 BC, there was a
book written that it's not in our Bible,
but it is in the Catholic Bible. It's
called Bell and the Dragon.
You ever heard of it? You should read
it. It's pretty interesting book. won't
take you but about 10 minutes to read
it. It's short. It's got two stories in
it and one of them is about a dragon.
I'll read that one uh just the one verse
about it. It really the whole story is
recorded in verses 23 through 30 of the
first chapter. And verse 23 says, "Now
in that place there was a great dragon
that the Babylonians revered." And in
that story, Daniel killed it. He didn't
kill it by a sword. He killed it by
basically blowing it up. But that's a
whole another story. You read it, it's
interesting.
Job. So dragon, we have that word that's
mentioned in at least texts that are
aligned with the Bible. Not dinosaur
because the word dinosaur didn't exist.
But the word dragon exists. Another word
that existed was behemoth. Behemoth just
means a very large be creature. Job
40:15-24 is a whole story about it. A
lot of people try to turn that into it
doesn't work. They want to turn it into
some kind of animal we have today. It
doesn't work. If you read it carefully,
there's no way the behemoth is any
animal we have living today. Verse 15
says, "Look now at the behemoth which I
made along with you. He eats grass like
an ox." Now, let me explain. Those
documents that tried to suggest it was
either a hippo or rhino or something
like that. Those documents, those were
commentaries written about the time
there was even a discovery of dinosaurs
and the word dinosaur. That's how old
those commentaries are. And so,
everybody's quoted them. You read that
text, that is not a hippo.
A hippo does not have a tail like a
cedar tree. Okay.
Job chapter 41:es 1-34. So you have
dragon. You have behemoth. The third
word that's used in scripture because
the word dinosaur is not going to
appear. Dragon
appears in scripture several places.
Dragon behemoth. And now the third word
is Leviathan. Job 41 1-34.
Can you draw out Leviathan with a hook
or snare his tongue with a line which
you lower? There's a great deal about
that. Quite a few number of scriptures
on dragons. So I mean Leviathans. And so
you can read all about them all you
want. That's what we know. So what do we
know? We know that there were large
creatures that used to live. That's all
I can tell you. Anything beyond that, I
can't tell you. Well, science shows that
they all disappeared before. Look, none
of those guys were living back then.
They're just like the rest of us digging
up stuff.
He said, "Well, they all died in the
flood." Maybe. I don't know. I can't
tell. For all I know, there's a guy with
a bow and arrow killing all of them
running around on the hillside. I don't
know. I don't know anything. I know they
got buried. How'd they get buried? How
many get buried up there? I mean, it
looks like they all got washed away is
what it looks like. That's what it looks
like. So, that's all I know. Okay. Did
they exist? Something existed. Was it
one thing? No. It was all kinds of
things. And they were big.
I'm glad they're gone. Personally,
if you want them around you, watch
television. Watch those shows. That's
closest we need to get. All right. Next
question.
What is the meaning of the parable of
the mustard seed? Let's read it. Matthew
13:31-32.
Another parable he put forth to them,
saying, "The kingdom of heaven is like a
mustard seed, which a man took and swed
in his field, which indeed is the least
of all the seeds, but when it is grown
and is greater than the herbs and
becomes trees, so that the birds, the
air come and nest in its branches." And
the other two passages where this same
parable is told is recorded there. The
par this parable teaches the kingdom
would start small seemingly
insignificant like a tiny mustard seed.
Now the tiniest mustard this not the
tiniest seed in the world but it's the
tiniest seed for these kind of herbs
that you might find that were in their
area and in their world it was. but it
grows into something larger. And you can
see it's like a smallish tree, big
shrub. And of course, it would therefore
provide shelter for creatures that would
want to live in and around it. But it
would have humble beginnings, if you
will, because it's such a small thing.
And then it grows bigger and bigger,
unfolding in unexpected ways because you
would think something pretty good size
would have a pretty good size seed, but
not in this case. And so it it should
encourage the idea of a faith that is
expansive and transformative. So
basically uh a man plants a mustard seed
in his field. It's the smallest all
seeds but grows in this largest garden
plants becomes a tree a small tree and
birds come and make nests in the
branches. What does that mean? Well I
give you a couple of ways to understand
it but I'll give you the basic thing.
The key meaning of this parable as far
as anybody really knows is the kingdom
would start small. I don't believe it's
referring to the beginning and uh Acts
two. I think it the it begins small. One
person, Jesus the king, just one person.
And then uh not with earthly power would
it would grow but seemingly
insignificantly
it wouldn't look like that it could grow
but this tiny seed through small acts
would turn into greater and greater
faith. So from these small beginnings it
would become mighty and expand
and become far beyond what anybody
expected.
So if you count everybody that believes
in Jesus worldwide right now, somewhere
between 2.4
and 2.6 billion people.
That's a huge impact upon the world. A
mighty impact upon the world. In fact,
the world has probably been saved
because even even if you don't agree
with all those people who believe in him
that they're decent people or what they
ought to be or obeyed the gospel,
whatever you want to argue, it has
changed the world. It's made a huge
impact. And now the birds nesting in its
branches symbolize the idea usually
thought of inclusion of outsiders in the
kingdom to some degree beyond what's
expected or the purpose of the plant. So
beyond that, which might include the
idea of how we serve the communities
around us and it's a the kingdom is a
blessing to the world. So even if you're
not in the kingdom or you don't believe
in Jesus, you have been blessed by the
fact that the kingdom exists in the
world and that is a truth. The whole
world's been blessed. So it also
suggests the growth of you. You can take
it down to the individual. If you don't
like that expansive way of interpreting
it, then you take it down to the
individual, the individual's faith and
it begins very small within you and then
it grows and it becomes stronger and
impactful and you impact individuals of
this world. So if the other bothers you
a little bit, but basically both of
those are believed and both of those are
explanations of that parable. Okay.
Third question.
What is lukewarm Christianity and how
not to be a lukewarm Christian? Lukeworm
Christianity. Uh, Revelation, let's look
at it. Let's read it. Revelation chapter
3 14-16.
And to the angel of the church, the
Leodysans, write these things, says the
Amen, the faithful and the true witness,
the beginning of the creation of God. I
know your works that you are neither
cold nor hot. I could wish you were cold
or hot. So then, because you are
lukewarm and neither cold nor hot, I
will vomit you out of my mouth. Why
would the Lord want you to be cold or
hot? Why would one those extremes be
best? Okay, so the Leodysian, you need a
little history. Leodysian water was
famously lukewarm. And it was that way
because it had heavy minerals in it. It
was gritty. You drank it. You could
almost feel the grit in your teeth, they
say. And the reason is because most of
their water came in through aqueducts
probably built by the Romans. And it's
making the water actually uh
unrefreshing, if you will, and often
actually led to they believe sickness.
People got sick and even died from their
water that wasn't all that pure. So,
it's a metaphor, if you will, for
tepidness because traveling long
distances through an aqueduct tended to
make it hot during the daytime. So, it'd
be a little warmer than it would have
been straight out of the stream. And
yet, it that leads to the idea if it had
been hot, it would suggest zealousness
about the kingdom. If it had been cold,
it would have suggested purity in the
kingdom. Both of those might be
considered good traits, but water, as we
all know, is best either warm
or cold. We tend to like to drink it
either hot, it's called coffee, if
you're wanting to know what I'm talking
about, or tea, or we like to drink it
really cold, and we put ice in it. Uh
now this was a wealthy town and they
this poor water supply ended up
ultimately historically clogging their
pipes. So literally those pipes you can
still see them today but they're
virtually useless because all the
material that's in that water has
literally kind of clogged their pipes.
So the key characteristics and
significance of all of this is the water
came from springs kind of south of the
city in a nearby town or it came from
Haropoulos
and that their springs and both places
funnel water there traveling miles
through these aqueducts and by the time
it got there it just tended to be
lukewarm, not really cold, not really
hot. So from the hot springs it got
cooler. From the cold springs it got
warmer and all that mineral in there
just calcified the pipes and it tasted
bad and it was gritty and some said it
was almost undrinkable.
In this passage in Revelation 3:14-16,
Jesus is rebuking the leotans
for being lukewarm, neither zealous,
that is hot, nor cold, which is pure.
and he's suggesting that what they're
doing is not just uh if you will not
anything but becoming useless and kind
of sickening
making people sick. These
uh poor water supplies symbolize
complacency on their part and it was a
warning of what we call half-hearted
faith. Uh you not really zealous and not
really pure. Think about those two
qualities. So zealous people often tend
to be legalistic.
Loving people often tend to be very
moral.
Neither one of those
not really reflective of either of that.
Not this direction, not that direction,
you know, to somewhere in between. It
didn't really do anything and get
anything done. So lukewarm religion
describes kind of a state of this
complacency where you profess faith, but
you have no passion and you have no
purity. So the characteristics of this
lukewarm Christian or lukewarm church is
they tended to lack enthusiasm or fervor
for God in any of their spiritual
duties. When you find somebody who won't
do anything you ever seen that in church
wouldn't do anything. Wouldn't lift a
finger to do anything. They come here
and that's a burden to them to even come
here. They're not engaged. They haven't
been changed.
They were going through religious
motions without real conviction. Have
you people Have you seen people come to
church that really doesn't believe any
of the things we say we believe? Just
kind of hanging on.
Yeah. They were self-satisfied. A
feeling that uh they didn't really need
more of God. They kind of wanted $3
worth of God in a paper sack. Kind of
like a good warm glass of milk to make
them feel good, but don't want too much
of God. Don't push too much of God on
me. that kind of attitude. I don't need
that. I'm already dedicated far more
than I almost need to be. Don't push it
on me. And uh their faith had not really
meaningfully
affected their lifestyle
or their actions or their heart. When
you find somebody that has faith but
hasn't really changed,
there it is. So, their faith align more
with what we'd call worldly comforts.
What do you want out of church?
Have good business relationships with
other people who go to church. Make good
friends.
Um, it's a nice thing to do.
That's as deep than your layout of sea
in faith.
How do we avoid this lukewarmness?
Repent.
Change your heart. That's what
repentance means. Change your heart.
Your activities will change if you
change your heart. Repentance is not
changing your activities. It motivates
changing your activities. Repentance is
change of a heart.
So if your heart changes, your behavior
will follow. But you got to change your
heart first and get out of that
complacency. And if if you're complacent
about purity, change that.
Have a change of heart. Want to be pure.
Live that way. A genuine faith. uh and
seek to if you if nothing else seek to
develop a deeper relationship maybe
through prayer through Bible reading
various means that you could come up
with seek to go after that. All right.
So 1 Peter 3 and verse one says
that without a word
may be one by the conduct of their
wives.
I think we forget
the reason that we win most people
is not because we have great answers
or that we can outargue them.
I think most people become a Christian
because a Christian becomes their
friend.
My brother uh sold cars for years until
he had to retire. For years and years he
sold cars. He was the number one
salesman for like 20, 30 years. Every
month. Every month. He's the number one
salesman.
So I asked him, "What are you doing
different?"
And he said two things that the other
salesmen don't do. He What is that? So
if you want to sell cars, listen to me.
Here's how you sell cars. Okay, number
one, don't take lunch.
I'll tell you why in a second. Uh,
number two,
work on weekends, Saturday and Sunday
afternoon if you can, but Saturdays
definitely.
Why?
That's when people who have jobs and
have money who can buy cars show up to
buy cars.
He said the average salesman is
depressed
by getting close to lunchtime. They're
looking for a reason for getting out of
the office.
They don't bring their lunch. They grab
other guys who are salesmen and they go
for an hour to twohour long lunch. By
the time they get back, all the
potential prospects have left for the
day because they had jobs.
It's not that they don't sell them. It's
just so and then he said in Saturday,
that's when most people go looking for a
car cuz they have to work Monday through
Friday.
So, show up and just be available.
That's it. He says, "I'm not good at
it." He says, "I'm just available." And
they're just not available. Here's the
deal. It isn't really what you think it
is. You think that good salesmanship is
talking their ear off. You think that
you've got to answer all their questions
potentially. So, I've got to know all
these answers to all this stuff. I got
to know about dinosaurs. I got to know
about, you know, the flood. I got to
know it. Otherwise, I'll never be able
to reach anybody. The number one way you
reach people is being available and
being good people. Just be a good person
and be available. When they ask
questions, answer them and maybe ask
questions that lead them to ask
questions. There you go. Not that deep,
is it? Uh without a word may be won by
the good conduct of their wives. How
many women have I told, "Stop trying to
convert your husband. Let us do that.
Sh. quit preaching. Let us do it. You
just be a good wife and a good mom and
we'll get them and we baptize a lot of
people doing that. But she has to be
quiet and quit preaching if that's going
to happen. Because if you preach too
much, ladies, if you're listening out
there, if there's somebody on the
internet or whatever, you preach too
much, you drive them away, not to the
Lord. Cuz men don't like to be driven.
Amen. Men who are men. Amen. And you
willy other guys just won't stand up. I
don't care what you think. All right.
So,
actress Dian Krueger,
national treasure in the fade, she's
been on several movies, was once offered
a role that required her to play a young
wife and mother.
And she's supposed to portray
the loss of her husband and a child in a
movie.
So she got this bright idea. She would
go and hang out with people who've had
this problem. And she did. She went and
hung out with people who had had this
problem and she thought now she'll be
able to act that way. She said, but what
she found is they would say something
and she would respond and they would see
something and she would respond and she
found she wasn't getting anywhere and
they were backing away from her.
Finally, she started just asking
questions and being quiet.
And then she caught on
when she started listening. You want to
win somebody? Listen to them.
Listen. Quit talking so much. Be their
friend. Listen to them.
You talk your way out of many sales.
One of the best things I ever taught by
one of the best soul winners I ever
knew, baptized, he personally baptized
over 350 people. He said, "There's a
point in every study. You get quiet and
you quit saying anything. You wait for
them to say something."
And if you don't do that, you overtalk
it and run them away. Stuart Brisco
preached his first sermon at age 17. I
didn't know to Stuart, but anyway,
here's what he did. He he had been
assigned a topic by an elder. So he
researched it. He researched it. He
researched it. It was on the church of
Ephesus and he research boy he piled up
the notes he had and he had his three
points. You know you have to have three
points just like tonight. You have to
have three points, you know, and a poem
or something. Anyway, so he it seemed
proper. He had it all worked out. And so
he stood up at this church in Bristol
and he started preaching and he preached
and he preached and he preached and he
preached and he preached. kept going and
he used up all of his loted time on his
first point.
But he kept going and he preached and he
preached. Finally, after he'd been
preaching way too long, he looked up
from his notes and he made a confession.
I'm terribly sorry. I don't know how to
stop.
A guy in the crowd yelled, "Just shut up
and sit down."
Yeah. What I'm suggesting to you is
don't think you talk people into Jesus.
You be available, but maybe you're
talking too much. Maybe you need to
learn to listen. Answer their questions
and provoke them to look. At some point,
we all need to stop talking. Amen. Like
right now,
if you're here tonight and you need to
obey the gospel, come while we stand and
while we
