Our anchor text this evening uh it is
coming from Philippians chapter 3
16- 21. I'm going to go ahead and reread
uh it in its entirety
and then we will uh dive in to the
lesson here. Paul is writing to the
Philippian church
and he says verse 16, "However, let us
keep living by that same standard to
which we have attained. Brethren, join
in following my example and obser
observe those who walk according to the
pattern you have in us. For many walk,
of whom I often told you, and now tell
you, even weeping, that they are enemies
of the cross of Christ, whose end is
destruction, whose God is their
appetite, and whose glory is in their
shame, who set their minds on earthly
things. Verse 20. For our citizenship is
in heaven, from which we also from which
also we eagerly wait for the for a
savior, the Lord Jesus Christ, who will
transform the body of our humble state
into conformity with the body of his
glory by the exertion of the power that
he has even to subject all things to
himself. And when Paul tells the the
Philippian church here that they are
uh their citizenship is in heaven, this
is not just a comforting thought uh for
the Philippian church. Uh but rather it
is a defining statement about the about
the believer's life. If you are a born
again Christian, your citizenship is in
heaven regardless of where you live on
this earth. We have uh kingdom citizens
here in America. We have kingdom
citizens in Africa. We have kingdom
citizens in Australia. There are kingdom
citizens regardless of an earthly uh
citizenship who are citizens of the
kingdom of God. And Paul writes this to
uh the Philippian church and and it's
interesting because they are a very
prominent Roman uh colony. And what's
interesting about it is the fact that
they are separated
by hundreds and hundreds of miles uh
from Rome. They're separated by land and
sea. But the the Philippian uh not
necessarily Philippian church per se,
but uh Philippi, they tied their
identity to the fact that they were
Roman uh citizens, to the fact that they
belonged to Rome, even though they did
not necessarily live there.
And so Paul takes this idea and he
shifts it to uh the kingdom of God. And
and and in the same way they were
separated by distance but still belong
to Rome. He tells them hey you may not
feel like you are connected to heaven.
You may not feel like you are connected
to the kingdom
uh but you belong to the kingdom. And I
think that's true for us today. We look
around at the world. We look around at
the craziness that we see a and we
wonder
right where is uh the kingdom? I feel so
far away from it. But the truth is we
belong to the kingdom of God. And since
we belong to the kingdom of God, our
life should reflect that.
Our life should reflect our kingdom
citizenship. I want to walk jump into
uh point number one here. As kingdom
citizens, we live with a distinct walk.
And the Bible says, Paul says here in
Philippians 3:16, "Nevertheless, to the
degree that we have already attained,
let us walk by the same rule. Let us be
of the same mind. Brethren, join in
following my example, and note those who
so walk as you have us for a pattern."
I love what William Barlay says about
this. He says, "We have our home in
heaven and here on earth, we are a
colony of heaven's citizens." Just as
the Roman col colonists never forgot
that they belong to Rome, you must never
forget that you are a citizen of heaven.
And your conduct must match your
citizenship. And if you look through the
New Testament, the Bible talks a lot
about how uh Christians are to walk. Uh
we don't have time to cover all of them
this evening, but uh we know the Bible
says Romans 6 that we walk in newness of
life. 2 Corinthians 5 tells us that we
should walk by faith and not by sight.
Uh Galatians 5, walk by the spirit, not
by the flesh. Ephesians 2, walk in good
works uh in which you were created for.
Uh, and then Ephesians 5 and 1 John 4.
We touched on this a little bit this
morning, but walk in love because God is
love. And there's a few things that I
want to touch on here tonight when he
talks about uh the Christian walk uh
that I think are are specific and I
think they're going to help us to walk
in a manner worthy of God.
First, he is telling the kingdom
citizens to walk in truth. Nevertheless,
to the degree that we have already
attained, walk let us walk by the same
rule. And so this means uh that our
lives, the way we live, the way we
behave uh is in agreement with
scripture. It's in agreement with the
commands that we find in scripture. It's
in agreement with the gospel message
that is proclaimed that we proclaim
through scripture. and and it's in
agreement with the faith that we profess
uh that we have. And so kingdom
citizens, they walk in truth and that
means they are committed to obeying
uh the word of God. If you have your
Bibles and you want to turn to John 17,
we're going to be here for a little bit
for the next two points.
In John 17 verse1 17 Jesus is praying to
the father and he asks that God would
sanctify his people or excuse me his
disciples specifically in truth. And so
this is my paraphrase to to this
section, but Jesus is saying, "God,
sanctify, set your people apart.
Devote them to you for your pleasure,
for your use, and for your mission by
the truth of your word." And this these
fundamental truths that come from the
Bible, the commandments from Jesus need
to be taken. They need to be applied to
our lives. They need to be applied to
our actions. They need to be applied to
our behaviors.
I love Spurgeon. He says the operation
of truth uh the operation of truth upon
the mind is to separate a man from the
world unto the service of God. There
should be no contradiction between my
beliefs and what I confess and the way
that I walk uh on this earth.
And praise God for the Holy Spirit,
right? Because that is extremely uh
difficult to do. It is way easier for me
to stand up here and say that there
should be no contradiction between what
you believe and what you live. Uh it's
way easier to say it than it is to do
it. And so, praise God for the Holy
Spirit who helps us uh with that.
Second, uh he's telling them to walk in
unity. Verse 16, nevertheless, to the
gre to the degree that we have already
attained, let us walk by the same rule.
Let us be of the same mind. And if
you're still in uh John chapter 17,
right, Jesus's prayer here, often
considered the great prayer or the high
priestly prayer, but Jesus is praying
for the unity of his people. And then
later on he prays for the unity of of
everyone of all believers.
And as he says as the father is one in
Jesus and as Jesus is one in in the
father then the disciples we uh should
be one in them. And he desires for his
people for all of the believers to be
unified. And so we should as the body of
Christ walk in unity. But we walk in
unity for a reason. Verse 21 of John 17,
he says, uh, that the world may believe
that you sent me. Verse 23, uh, the
world may know that you sent me and have
loved them as you have loved me. And I
just want to call this out because I
think we can get very,
uh,
when it comes to the idea of unity, I
think we need to be very careful. Um I
think in many ways the church today has
made an idol of unity.
I think uh
for for the sake of unity we will avoid
conflict and we will ignore unrepentant
sin.
For the sake of unity we will water down
the truth uh because we don't want to
offend.
For the sake of unity, we will tolerate
uh behavior and attitudes that do
nothing but and intend to divide. A and
so we are we are called yes to walk in
unity but not at the expense of truth.
Amen.
Unity that ignores truth is not unity.
It is actually compromise. And we are
not called to compromise. Uh Adrien
Rogers says, "It is better to be divided
by truth than to be united in error."
And you might say, "Man, that sounds
really harsh, right?" And you can think
uh whatever you want of of of Adrien
Rogers, but I want to remind you of
Genesis 11 and the Tower of Babel. They
were unified.
And what was the outcome?
The point of our unity as kingdom
citizens is to point back to the
father's love. It's to point back to uh
the fact that yes, God did send Jesus
down to walk the earth and to die for
our sins. It's to point people to the
truth of scripture. That is the purpose
of unity. It's the truth of the
scriptures that's found within
scripture. It's to point them to the
truth of the gospel message and it's to
point them to the truth of God's
holiness and God's righteousness. And so
when we compromise on truth, I don't
believe we're walking as we're called to
walk as disciples.
And then I also think he's calling us to
walk in imitation. In verse 17,
brethren, join in following my example
and note those who so walk uh as you
have us for a pattern. Obviously, we are
first and foremost called to imitate
Jesus. 1 John 2:6 says, "He who says he
abides in him ought himself to walk just
as he walked." And we have the good
book. We have the Bible that lays out
the life of Jesus. We have the perfect
example that we are called to follow.
But God has also blessed us with
faithful examples of the saints around
us.
Paul tells the the Corinthian church in
uh 1 Corinthians chap 11, "Imitate me
just as I imitate Christ." If you guys
don't know this, I am a huge uh marathon
runner. And so, you know, in in
marathons, um, you know, that actually
might have just been in my nap today
where I dreamed that. Um, in marathons,
right, these big marathon, I think of
the Boston Marathon. One of my
co-workers just recently ran that. And
in these marathons, there's a lead car
that goes out that directs the path,
right? In the 2025 Boston Marathon, it
saw almost 29,000 racers. Uh, the
fastest time was 2 hours and 4 minutes.
And I'm pretty sure that dude was riding
a bicycle. Uh, the slowest official
time, they did they stopped clocking it
after 5:30 p.m. You know, you can still
finish, but you're not, you know,
recorded. But the slowest official time
was 6 hours and 5 minutes. And I tell
you this because the what I'm trying to
get just an illustration here I is that
in these big races this lead car that
goes out the people up front right they
get to follow the lead car directly
but between the person or the group of
people in first and that very very last
person who finishes the race there are
thousands upon thousands of people
completing the race. And so while the
the group out in front gets to follow
the lead car directly, the thousands
upon thousands of people behind them are
doing nothing but following the person
in front of them who's following the
person in front of them who's following
the person in front of them and
ultimately get to the person following
the lead car.
And I think this is this is the whole
idea of disciplehip of disciples making
disciples is this idea of hey follow me
as I follow Christ and I can follow you
as you follow Christ.
And so I want to encourage you when we
live with a distinct walk, right, we are
doing uh we find someone whose life is
headed towards Christ and we attach
ourselves to them. And again, I'll call
it out. I'm I'm I'm really grateful to
see the number that we have here
tonight. But that is why I think our
fellowships are so important. Our
worship services are so important not
just on Sunday morning
but Sunday evening
especially on Wednesday midweek
right we come in we create these
relationships I'm attaching my pe myself
to people who are following Christ and
in turn we are all following Christ
together
second thing that I think we see here is
that kingdom citizens live with a
defining authority
I'm going to start in verse 18. I know
we only have verse 20 on the on the
slide, but Philippians 3:18.
For many walk, of whom I have told you
often, and now tell you even weeping
that they are the enemies of the cross
of Christ, whose end is destruction,
whose God is their belly, and whose
glory is in their shame, who set their
minds on earthly things. uh for our
citizenship is in heaven from which we
also eagerly wait for the savior the
lord Jesus Christ. I think it's safe we
we covered the topic of authority this
morning. I'm not going to rehash that
right. Jesus is king. He is lord. He is
master. And that means that as kingdom
citizens his commands rule our lives.
Another commentary uh that I was reading
this week, it says, "If we are citizens
of heaven, it means that we are resident
aliens on earth. Foreigners are distinct
in whatever foreign land they go.
Christians must be so marked by their
heavenly citizenship that they are
noticed as different."
And I love here in verses 18 and 19, I
think Paul doesn't just tell us who we
are as citizens of heaven. uh in verse
18 and 19 he actually shows us who we
are not.
Kingdom citizens are not enemies of the
cross. Paul says that enemies of the
cross are ruled by their appetites.
They're ruled by uh their bellies. And
this doesn't just talk about food,
right? This talks about anything uh that
you crave and desire and that you put it
above God. You create an idol out of
these pleasures. pleasures of the body,
pleasures of the mind, pleasures of the
soul, a and and enemies of the cross,
right? Their standard or their defining
authority is not holiness.
Their standard and their defining
authority is happiness and their desire
for happiness controls them. Nothing
wrong with being happy, right? But it
should not control me to the point that
I am willing to disobey God in order to
be happy.
Uh they're ruled by their earthly uh by
their perspective, their earthly
thinking, right? They don't have an
eternal perspective. They're only seeing
the world and making their decisions off
of what they can tangibly see here on
earth. uh their authority essentially
enemies of the cross uh their authority
has essentially become themselves.
They rule themselves. Their desires
become their authority. And the Bible
says in in verse 19 there that their end
is destruction.
And so he tells us who we're not. Uh we
talked about authority this morning.
What I want to do here just for a second
is I want to talk about right even
though we are citizens of the kingdom of
heaven and we are defined by the
authority above. We still have to live
our lives under right the United States
government. We still have to live our
lives under the authority and the rule
of our of our government. And Paul in
Romans 13 explains to us how to do that.
He tells us uh verses 1-7. And I want to
pick out two things that he tells us
about government. Uh first in in Romans
13:1 is that that authority government
was established by God.
Don't care which side you lean on. Don't
care if you like the guy in office or
not. It was established by God. It has
been allowed by God. And then he tells
us that the government should exist
right to uh restrain evil and promote
good.
And then the second thing he tells us
about the government is our response to
the government even as kingdom citizens
with defining authority in heaven. Uh
our response to the government is to
submit. We see that in Romans 13:es 1
and:es 5 that we don't resist the
government. Romans uh 13:es 2 and that
we pay taxes, we give respect, and we
show honor.
And I can tell you it's it's been a lot
better uh lately from what I can tell.
But I I can tell you I got very
disheartened and discouraged and and
truthfully I participated in some of it
in the past to see what my brothers and
my sisters would post on social media
about the government
and the divide that we allowed it to
cause.
We are called as kingdom citizens to
live as good citizens of the country uh
that we live in under that governing
authority but we understand that it is
not the ultimate authority in our lives.
Right? The government has its laws. Yes,
I abide by the laws but it does not
ultimately govern me. It is not the
authority that defines me and who I am
and my citizenship in heaven.
And so what do I mean by that?
Uh listen, speed limits. Those are a
good thing and we should try to abide by
them. I will just throw in a note,
right? Driving way slower than the speed
limit is just as dangerous as driving
way over the speed limit. That's a side
note, Rex.
Right. What do I mean by that? Taxes are
good things. A a and we should pay them.
Amen.
Amen. Ruth,
taxes are good things. Laws uh that
force children to ride in car seats,
that's a good thing, right? And
everybody should do that.
But what this does mean to me is that
just because the government allows
something or the government says
something is okay does not mean it's
right.
Just because uh the government allows
something and makes a law saying you are
allowed to do something doesn't mean
it's okay for a kingdom citizen to do.
And on the flip side of that, if the
government makes a law against something
and demands that we stop doing something
that we know is right and that we've
been commanded to do by God, I don't
believe we have to listen to that
because that is not my defining
authority.
Uh you see this in Acts chapter 4 and
Acts chapter 5 and it's slightly
different but this is the Sanhedrin and
uh the apostles uh were were preaching
and teaching and in Acts 4:18 the
Sanhedrin tells them uh not to speak or
to teach in the name of Jesus.
And thankfully the apostles they didn't
listen. They prayed for boldness. They
were filled with the Holy Spirit. And
verse 32 of Acts chapter 4 says that
they spoke the word of God with
boldness. In Acts chapter 5, they were
thrown into prison. Uh the angel of the
Lord frees them, verse 19, and tells
them, "Hey, go the angel of the Lord
against the Sanhedrin, go speak to the
people about Jesus." And the high priest
brings them back in for questioning. Uh
and he says, "Hey, did we not strictly
command you not to teach in the name of
Jesus?"
He says, 'You filled Jerusalem with uh
your doctrine. And what was the response
of the disciples? They say it is uh we
ought to obey God rather than man. And
so we don't resist the government unless
in my eyes unless it um completely and
strictly contradicts the word of God. If
if if the government says that churches
can no longer meet on Sundays, guess
what? I'm going to be here.
I if they restrict our ability to pray,
I'm going to pray anyways.
If they are if they restrict our ability
to preach the name of Jesus, to share
our faith, to talk about God and what
what God has done for us through Jesus,
guess what? I'm going to do that anyway,
right? You can take my possessions. You
can throw me in prison. You can threaten
my life. I am going to preach what I
know to be true because that's what the
Bible's called me to do.
The authority, the defining authority in
a kingdom citizens life is the authority
of the kingdom. But we should still aim
to be very good citizens in the land uh
that we live. Lastly, kingdom citizens,
they live with a deferred reward. Back
in Philippians chapter 3
verse 20. For our citizenship is in
heaven from which we also eagerly wait
for the savior, the Lord Jesus Christ,
who will transform our lowly body that
it may be conformed to his glorious body
according to the working by which he is
able even to subdue all things to
himself. And Paul's using specific
language here when he says when he says
savior and he says lord that meant
something to the Romans that meant
something to even the Philippians who
you know belong uh to Rome. It meant
something to the Caesars.
In uh BC48
Julius Caesar was declared to be the
universal savior of mankind. And so when
Paul says the savior Jesus Christ, that
means something. Uh Roman citizens had
to declare to the uh the Roman Caesar as
Lord. And shortly after this uh many
Christians were martyed because they
would not do that.
They had one Lord, one God in heaven and
they refused to call Caesar Lord.
But kingdom citizens, we have a savior
that is able to do what no other human
being can do. No other man uh can do.
There is a deferred reward. There is an
eternal hope that a kingdom citizen has.
And through the resurrection of that
savior, through the resurrection of
Jesus, we have been begotten to a living
hope uh to a reserved inheritance. The
Bible says that is incorruptible. It's
undefiled and it will not fade away.
Uh there is a glory coming for the
kingdom citizen. We will not see it on
on this side on on this side of
eternity. But there is a glory coming.
Uh Paul says in 2 Corinthians chapter 4,
there's an eternal weight of glory that
outweighs anything this world has to
offer.
uh in 1 Corinthians 15 he talks about uh
the body and he says that the body is
sown in corruption but it is raised in
incorruption.
It is sown in dishonor but it is raised
in glory. It is sown in weakness but it
is raised in power. Our bodies are going
to be raised
and they're going to be transformed into
the glorious body of Jesus Christ. And
praise God for that. I'm thankful for my
body, but I got a lot of things I don't
like about it. I'm only 35 and it's
already breaking down on me.
I have a living hope that my body will
one day be raised with Jesus Christ.
And so that means that kingdom citizens,
we are citizens of the kingdom of God.
And we live with a distinct walk. We
live with a defining authority. We live
with a deferred reward. And we wait
eagerly. And we wait patiently.
And And I don't know, you may you may
know, but I don't know what that looks
like.
Well, my body being raised and
transformed into the to the glorious
image of Jesus. I don't know what that
looks like. Uh John didn't know what
that looked like. 1 John chapter 3 verse
two. Beloved, now we are children of
God. And it has not yet been revealed
what we shall be. But when we know we
but we know that when he is revealed, we
shall be like him.
For we shall see him as he is.
I just want to see him.
I want I want to be like him.
I'm grateful for everything that he's
blessed me with, but I cannot wait to
throw myself at his feet
in worship,
in in in thankfulness.
The glory that is coming outweighs
anything that we can see on this side of
eternity. And I can't wait.
Deborah Anne Belela has a poem. She says
it's called a citizen of heaven. She
says, "I'm a citizen of heaven. My
passport in my hand. One day I'm going
to go to the promised land.
My name is in the book of life. Soon
I'll be heavenbound. Boy, I can hardly
wait till my feet hit the ground. My
ticket is in my pocket. Anytime I might
leave until the time comes on my hope, I
will cleave.
Jesus has my room ready. He's waiting
there for me. And soon his glorious
face, my eyes will finally see. I got me
a reservation. In his mansion, I will
stay. Nothing will keep me from that
promised day. And if you're here tonight
and you've not surrendered your life to
Jesus, if you've not confessed that he
is Lord over your life, if you've not
repented of your sins and put him on in
in baptism, uh the time is now. you too
can be raised to a newness of life to to
a kingdom citizenship
uh with an eternal living hope of glory
in heaven with the father and with the
son. If you need anything, please come
as we stand and as we sing.
