Little Phillip was born with Down
syndrome. Most of you know about that.
He attended a third grade Sunday school
class with several eight-year-old boys
and girls.
Typical of that age, and I'm not trying
to pick on them, but typical of that
age, the children did not readily accept
Philip with his differences.
But because of a creative teacher, a
very good Sunday school teacher, they
began to care about Philillip and accept
him as a part of the group.
It was Sunday, Easter Sunday,
and the teacher brought, maybe y'all are
old enough to remember, legs,
the product with the egg,
all right? Had hoes in it.
Some of you are young, don't remember
that, but the rest of us who remember
Black and White TV, we remember it.
Well, she she had brought a bunch of
those and given them out, one to each of
the children in the class.
And what she did is after she taught
about the resurrection, she took the
whole class outside and said, "Now what
I want you to do, kids, is why don't you
go and find something that represents uh
resurrection and life." And so the kids
went outside, started running around,
and there all kinds of things and
gathered up. And when they came back in,
there's kind of a show and tell time.
We're now opening up that egg and look
for what's inside. And a bunch of them
had uh flowers inside their eggs. Other
had butterfly inside it, a leaf here,
and something sweet. And they were all
going ooh and awe. Until it was time for
one last egg, and opened it, and the
kids went, "Well, that's wrong. That's
not fair. Somebody didn't do their
assignment." That's when Philillip spoke
up and said, "That's mine."
And then one of the kids said, "Phillip,
you don't ever do things right.
There's nothing in your egg."
But Philillip said, "I did do it. I did
do it. It's empty because the tomb was
empty."
Silence followed in the classroom.
And it was a short period of time later,
just a few months, Philip got an
infection because of his issues. He
didn't do as well as other people. And
what would you your child would have
survived from? He didn't. He passed
away.
At the funeral,
his class of eight-year-olds
marched up to the altar
where all the flowers were placed. And
with their Sunday school teacher, each
one of them laid an empty pantyhose egg
on the altar, remembering Philillip,
the resurrection.
It's Easter Sunday, and typically that's
where we remember the anniversary. And
of course, this is pretty special. 33 AD
or if you're Jews, it was 3,795
that day. But you already believe. You
just sang it. I know. You just said it.
I know that my redeemer lives. You
believe 100%. So, I'm not going to try
to convince you of the resurrection
today. That's that's not what I'm about
today. I don't want to prove that. I
want to affirm your faith. I simply want
to affirm it. You already believe it. I
want to comfort you with some truths
that maybe you hadn't considered that
should reassure your hearts. And and I
there are many look at the vast number.
I'm not going to read through that. The
vast number of reasons that we should
believe he rose from the dead. And
that's not the full list. That's just a
ris list of seven that are absolutely
true. Uh so many reasons to believe the
witnesses of all the people that were
there, the explicit predictions of the
Bible and Jesus himself.
James who is his brother who didn't
believe that became a believer.
Paul who persecuted the church and
became a believer. So much evidence. And
then of course the early historians, so
many of them, I mean, you could go down
the list of names, but I'm not going to
do that. We believe it.
Timothy Keller said this. If Jesus rose
from the dead,
then you have to accept all that he
said.
If he didn't rise from the dead, then
why worry about
any of what he said?
But if he rose from the dead, you have
to accept it all.
I want to talk about the blessing of the
resurrection and why it was so important
that he rise from the dead.
You see what this scripture says to us
in that was read to us so simply in one
thing. He was raised because of our
justification. What does that mean?
That's the only time that statement
appears in the scriptures.
He was raised because of our
justification.
Let's walk through that why that's true.
Number one, by Jesus resurrection,
God justified our regeneration or our
rebirth.
Titus 3:5-7 says this, "Not by works of
righteousness, which we've done, but
according to his mercy, he saved us
through the washing of regeneration or
rebirth and renewing of the Holy Spirit,
whom he poured out on us abundantly
through Jesus Christ, our Savior, that
having been justified by his grace, we
should become hes according the hope of
eternal life." Here's simple truth.
Jesus was a human.
He died.
If he rose again and ever lives, he was
changed.
He became immortal.
So, not only is the concept of the
rebirth a true thing, but it's
suggestive of we changed.
If we didn't change, we didn't do what
he did. You see, rebirth is not just a
death and a burial. If that were true,
we would drown every one of you at the
baptistry.
It is a resurrection that
tells us we are now different. We are
changed.
So literally by Jesus resurrection God
justified even the concept of
regeneration. The second thing he did is
by Jesus resurrection God justified our
remission of sins. In 1 Corinthians 15:1
17 it says this. And if Christ is not
raised your faith is futile.
You are still in your sins. If Jesus
died on the cross, a normal man, and
stayed in that grave, we have no reason
to be here today.
You are not saved. There is no such
thing in it. In fact, there's no
evidence of life after death.
You've got the only real evidence of
life after death is someone that comes
back from it and then stays alive
forever more. So death brings life and I
am forgiven and God proves it to me and
justifies my faith in that through his
resurrection. The third truth,
by Jesus' resurrection, God justifies
our reconciliation.
The very idea that I could be
reconciled, even though I'm a sinner, to
a holy God, listen to what it says. 2
Corinthians 5:18, "Now all things are of
God, who hath reconciled us to himself
through Jesus Christ, and has given us
the ministry of reconciliation, this
propitiation, this uh justifying, this
satisfying God's upset with our sins."
If that did not happen, then we are not
saved. But the only evidence we have
that it happened is not that a man died
on the cross. That's not the evidence of
it. Many men died on crosses in that
day. The only evidence we have is this
man rose from the dead saying he didn't
deserve it. And through his death, you
can be reconciled to God. So I have been
I am no longer have to satisfy God. He
satisfied God for me. I don't have to
propitiate God. He's already been taken
care of. He's no longer angry. The next
truth that comes out of this is not only
reconciliation, but by Jesus
resurrection, God justified our
righteousness
that we could be righteous in God's
presence and live in a holy heaven with
God. 2 Corinthians 5:21, for he made
him, that is Jesus, who knew no sin,
absolutely perfectly righteous to be sin
for us. He was made to be sin for us,
dying on the tree, as Deuteronomy points
out, that we might become the
righteousness of God in him. He was
righteous, now I am righteous. And the
only evidence that I have of that is he
rose from the dead. He has justified my
confidence that I am righteous today by
raising him from the dead. The way you
know you can be righteous before God and
have been made righteous is he came out
of the grave. Had he stayed in the
grave, you just have to hope. Just have
to hope. Just hope it's true. But no, he
justified it before us all and justified
us through it. But more than that, by
Jesus resurrection, God justified our
understanding of our relationship with
him. I'm not Jewish. That's a great
blessing, I think, to be born literally
in the line of Abraham. Great. I'm part
Cherokee engine. So, I'm a little
different. I don't fit into any of those
kind of things. But here's the truth.
Romans 8 and verse1 15 says, "For you
did not receive the spirit of bondage
again to fear, but you received the
spirit of adoption." Oh wow. By whom we
cry out, "Aba, Father.
I'm not in line, but I've been adopted."
Amen. And the only reason I know I'm
adopted is because God's son rose from
the dead and made my adoption possible.
For me to even believe that it was
possible, that God could adopt the rest
of the world and say, "You're all my
children by faith." What a great truth.
I'm a son.
I'm a son. I got paperwork to prove it.
I'm a son.
The next truth by Jesus resurrection
God justified our redemption.
In Romans 8 verse 23 it says this. Not
only that but we also who have the first
fruits of the spirit even we ourselves
grown within ourselves eagerly waiting
for the adoption to truly see it. We
haven't seen it yet. We we believe it
because of the resurre but eagerly wait
for the adoption. Listen to this. The
redemption of our body.
He was perfect and eternal. Now he's
eternal. He rose from the dead. We know
he ever lives to make intercession for
us. He lives forever. You and I will as
well. And the only reason you should
believe that there's life after death.
The only reason you should believe in
the resurrection is coming. That only
reason that you believe that your body
will one day be totally holy and right
with God. The one I'm looking at changed
forever more and be right with God. The
only reason I should believe that is
because Jesus came forth from that tomb
bodily resurrected.
That's God's will. And I will as well,
you will as well. And the reason we
believe it and the reason we know it and
the reason we can be justified in that
faith. The only reason you can be
justified in that faith is God justified
us through his resurrection. And then
finally by Jesus resurrection, God
justified our resurrection itself. It
says in 1 Corinthians 6 and verse 14,
"And God
both raised up the Lord and will also
raise us up by his power." Listen to
that. He raised Jesus, he'll raise us.
He raised Jesus, he'll raise us. He
raised Jesus, he ra Well, I don't know
how that's going to happen. If we were
totally in, let me put it like this.
Somebody says, "Well, we we're liable to
be eaten by fish. We're liable to be
eaten by worms. Our bodies will be
scattered to the four winds. We may be
burned and gone. And how could anything
like that?" He said, "Well, I maybe I
could understand it if we He just fell
over dead and we were all intact."
You wouldn't believe that either.
The only reason you can believe any of
this is because Jesus rose from the
dead. He is alive. He's alive. Amen.
He's alive. And since he is alive, God
through making that true has justified
our faith that we will be too. That we
will be alive. That we will be raised.
Praise the Lord. That we will be raised.
That's the whole lesson right there. I I
know that may not sound earthshattering
and big for you. Look look at the things
by that God justified our belief in our
regeneration, our belief in our
remission of sin by by our belief in our
reconciliation, our righteousness, our
relationship, our redemption, our re the
reason that we can have the faith that
we would even come out to church on an
Easter Sunday is because God raised him.
Without that, might as well stay home.
We don't have a reason to believe. So
without that, here's the truth. We
simply would not know. Do you
understand?
Do you now understand why he had rise?
It isn't just there was a battle between
life and death from the time of the
garden. That's true. But it's not just
for that. He wanted you to understand it
and have confidence. Otherwise, you
simply would not know that you could be
regenerated. You simply would not know
that you could have remission of sins.
You simply would not know that you could
be reconciled to God. You simply would
not know that God could impart his
righteousness to you. That you simply
would not know that you could be
righteous and have a relationship of
adoption with him. You simply would not
know that this body that you have now
could be redeemed as many bad things as
you've done in it and that body could be
redeemed. You simply would not know
that. You simply would not know that
there's a resurrection day coming. You
just simply wouldn't know it.
Now, maybe that doesn't matter to you
and me as well today.
Maybe it won't even matter tomorrow.
Maybe it won't matter next week.
Maybe it won't matter a month from now,
a year from now.
But one day, not long from now,
each one of us will realize how
important that was,
as we face our own demise.
One of us will be next. I don't know
which one. Which one do you think is
next in this crowd?
Do you have any idea?
One of us is next. It might be me.
One of us is next.
That day is coming. And on that day, it
will matter to you more than ever before
that Jesus rose.
Oh, today it's casual. It's all about
how pretty I am. But on that day, it
will only matter that Jesus rose from
the dead.
Y'all have heard of Ukraine?
Ukraine's not been in the news only
once. In Ukraine, the Black Sea was the
Battle of Inkerman.
Y'all probably don't remember this in
the news. This is November the 5th,
1854.
As a critical Crimean War conflict
with the Russians, the British had 8,500
men. The French brought 7,500 men to the
battle. And they defeated 35,000
Russians. But the battle was not like a
normal battle. The battle was engaged in
thick fog. You could barely see what was
going on around you. It was
predominantly handto hand. You couldn't
shoot anything because you couldn't see
anything. Everything came clashing
together. It was man against man. Man
against man, life or death, man against
man. The victory actually that day for
the British and the French secured
Allied seas of Sebastapole which was
against and defeating 12,000 Russian at
that point.
At the Battle of Inkerman, which is the
one I'm talking about, a soldier was
wounded badly in hand-to-hand combat.
After the battle was over, he was able
to crawl back to his tent
after he'd been struck down.
When they found him later,
he was lying face down
with his Bible near him, his hand
extended to the Bible.
His hand was glued by his blood to the
Bible.
His finger was literally on a scripture.
And the scripture his finger was glued
to that day when they pulled his hand
away was John 11:25.
I am the resurrection
and the life and he that believeth in
me, though he were dead, yet shall he
live.
All of us one day will lay our trembling
finger on that verse.
Why not lay it on it today?
Put your finger on that verse and trust
in it.
If you're here today and you never put
your trust in the risen Lord and Savior,
you could repent of your sins, confess
the name of Christ, be baptized. All
that's possible. All of it's justified.
The only reason you should even believe
it is if you believe that God raised him
from the dead. He justified our faith in
him. Won't you come if you now decided
to while we stand and while we
