Don't cry. I ain't even started yet.
Quamora,
good morning.
Y'all doing okay? How's your Easter
going so far?
All right. So,
I'm going to do a couple of things over
the next four weeks. Uh trying to cover
a little bit of ground that that maybe
you'll be able to use some of this.
Today I want to not everybody wants to
do a heavyduty Bible study with somebody
but and it's hard in your mind to uh
start a Bible study with somebody that's
you know that's you know coming at them
well you need to do this you need to get
your life right kind of thing. So this
discovery Bible study is just for you.
This is this is for you if you struggle
to be able to sit down and have a study
with somebody. This is for you if you
struggle to generate a prospect to talk
to about the gospel. You know, we have a
prospective members class and you can
invite them to that. But if people
aren't coming to church, it's a little
different. And so now you're you're
going to struggle to maybe have a study
with somebody. So, I'm recommending
rather than the hardcore that we're
going to look at the next three weeks,
okay? We'll look at kind of the hardcore
stuff, but right now, if you you
struggle to do that, let me suggest that
anybody can do what we're going to talk
I'm telling you, you do not have to be a
Bible scholar to do what we're going to
want going to show you today. This is so
straightforward,
so simple a way to begin a Bible study
in your home or at the coffee shop or
something quietly. You can do this. You
can do it with one onone. You can do it
with two on two. I would never recommend
it one on two. I don't think that's
generally a good idea ever, but two on
two. That's great. couple of couples
together or you and your wife or you and
your husband with a couple of more
couples. I would not recommend more than
about six just because everybody can't
talk and it's not as friendly and it
becomes more, you know, us against them
kind of thing and that's that's just not
good. So, I'd highly recommend keep this
simple. Uh but you can do this. This is
and so I'm going to take you through
that. I'm going to tell you what we're
going to do in the next few weeks, but
that's where we're at. Uh let's let's
have a prayer. Uh I need that because my
vision's going bad. Pray with me. Holy
Father, in the name of Jesus, we come to
you asking you to bless us in this
study. We pray, Father, that uh the
methods we look at will be seen as that
just human-made efforts to try to
accomplish your will. And and we don't
always do the best we can, but we pray
that you'll help us to learn to do
better. and bless us in this study,
Father, that we will be about your
business trying to win souls for you.
It's in Jesus name we pray. Amen. Okay,
let me let me give you a little history.
So, what we're going to be looking at,
so basically, you may not be aware of
this, but back almost 30 years ago, we
adopted this back to the Bible course.
Now, these are new. These Whitaker have
upgraded these a little bit, but but
these are basically the same books. It
Larry Stevens came to me right after we
moved here and I over I looked at it and
and I overlooked it. I looked at it and
I didn't think they were all that great
to be honest with you. And so I was I
didn't go along with it for a while. But
the guy who wrote these, Bobby Bates, we
managed to get him to come here about 30
years ago. He's dead now. He had cancer
even when he came. He wasn't well. He
came here and he spoke from Sunday
through Friday. But he didn't speak the
way you normally do in a gospel meeting.
What he did is he spoke on Sunday night.
And he basically told us about what
we're going to do. And then he taught
one of the lessons. Okay. The first one,
which is the green one up there. If you
see it, the light green one. I don't
know if this thing works, but you know,
you see it. The light green one on on
your left up there. And he taught that.
The next night we had to teach it. We
sat in the fellowship hall. If y'all
remember the old fellowship hall and so
the next night he taught the blue one,
and then we taught it the next night.
And the next night he taught the red
one, and then we had to teach it the
next night. We had 10 baptisms or
thereabouts at the end of that week from
our own people who were going through
the study. Okay. So then it was a case
of well what do we do with that? And so
uh Deb and I came up with this thing
where we'll do a perspective Bible study
because we had a lot of visitors. We
still do. On average this church has had
since I've been here somewhere between
three and six visiting uh families or
individuals per week. Pretty much
consistent. It still does. Now, not all
of them will fill out the paperwork, but
about three pretty good. One's not a bad
Sunday. We'll always just about have
one. So, but I'm up to six. I didn't
seen too many Sundays we've had more
than six. It's up like a special event.
And so, uh I don't It's probably Deb's
idea. I don't remember. But we said,
let's just have a little class and
anybody comes in that's new, we can
invite them to that. And so we started
that and we did it for I don't know
seemed like about three years. We had
somewhere between 30 and 50 baptisms
that we engaged in during that time. And
uh but it was dominating my time. I
never could teach another class and
couldn't do anything else. And so I
started trying to get some other people
to come in and teach so I could at least
be out some. And for a long time I still
did it half the time. So even after that
cause and finally I got Ray Ray and
Jenny involved and and then I got Brian
Miller involved and then we got and then
they got some others. I think Paul and
uh Kelly and some others and Tommy L
helped me with some of them. And so we
we got anyway probably about 10 people
back then that could do it. And so we
started teaching. It's really not
complicated, but if you haven't taught
it, you know, you feel intimidated. And
it's a three-part study that usually
took four weeks unless you talk a lot
and then it takes six weeks. So, but you
know, about 45 minutes for class and you
know how you talk, you know how we talk
and we just talk about anything and
everything. So, like what do you do for
a living? You know, and that all comes
up to and you got to do that and that's
the reason it was about a four week
which is great. We're still doing that.
We're gonna continue to do that as far
as I know as long as the Lord carries.
But uh then recently about a year or two
ago uh we decided to do Friends Speak.
Do y'all know about Friendspeak? So
Friends Speak is uh they use the easy to
read version Bible in the book of Luke
to teach people who do not know how to
uh read or write or understand English.
And it's easy read. And so people will
sit and it's still being done just not
very many. Mike's the only one I know
right now doing one. Mike Hager and I
saw him a minute ago but I don't see him
now. So he he's been doing one. And so
they're still doing it a little bit but
it's it it's all on the individual who
wants it to learn English as a as their
second language maybe to be able to do
work here in America. So that's that's a
lot of it. So, we designed this ABCs
where it's got it's simpler version of
this and it's in the easy to read. It's
quite frankly a horrible version as far
as I'm concerned, but it was to design
so that if somebody did that, you could
say, "Oh, well, here you could do this,
too." You know, so it was to back up
friend speed. What I'm doing now is I'm
taking those three and I'm putting them
into the new international version
because right now buy a million copies a
year that's the most popular version
available out there. It's not because I
think the New International Version is a
great version. It's because I'm trying
to develop something. And what I'm going
to do is we're in the process right now.
We're going to turn all three of those
into one book and you can just give that
to somebody and it we're trying to make
it so simple that anybody can do it.
They don't need somebody to teach you
how to do it. So, it could be a gift for
people who don't want to come and be in
a study. You could hand it to them and
say, "Go do that and go through it and
then let us know how it goes." I'm
trying to create something there and
hopefully in the next few months we'll
come up with that. All right. So, that's
background. This is where we've been
now. So, I don't know how long how long
ago did you go to that thing? Uh, it
been a year.
So about a year and a half ago then I
went to uh this New Day resource thing
over in Melbourne. It was great. Ah
they're really trying to do this and
it's all free. Everything I'm going to
show you today is 100% free. I think
that's awesome to provide this kind of
material and it be free. So, you can go
to the website and these are the studies
and you'll see this is just a big
version of what you're seeing on the
screen right here. This is just the
first little Bible bookmark. All you
need is a Bible bookmark and a Bible. If
you can, you got a little computer,
that's even better. A laptop, that's
great. So, I'll show you what this is.
So, this is their website. Well, did I
did I miss that? No, I did. I didn't.
This is their website. So, if you want
to look that up, just telling you how to
do this the easiest way possible. Look
it up. That's their website. It's all
free there. You go there and you go to
where it says resources. You click on
where it says resources. It takes you to
this page. You see this page here? This
first thing in the corner there. That is
I got to find that button. That is that
does that do it? No, it doesn't. Anyway,
that uh video there is uh what teaches
you how to do it. It's but it's not
hard, but it is a little video and I'm
going to show it to you here in just a
minute. We're going to but that's the
you can download and they got many many
of these studies and they're so simp.
You're going to see how simple they are
and little couple couples can work their
way through it. You said, "Well, is this
going to teach somebody how to become a
Christian?" Uh well, it can, but that's
not really what this is about. This is
about generating someone's interest in
studying the Bible because it's become
of no interest in our society and we've
got to get them to want to study the
Bible and then hopefully we'll get them
to the uh more in-depth study. So you
click on this area over here. You see it
right one of them. It says print ready.
That's the middle one. And down below is
the video series. Okay. So, there is a
video series that goes along with
Matthew and the sermon on the mount.
That's the one I'm suggesting to you
because I've done this one. It's
awesome. Okay? It's really good. Good
material. And I'll tell you something.
This preacher is like three notches over
anything I've ever done. He is really,
really good at this. Super good. So,
this is that's what it looks like. You
see it? That's the one page and that's
the other one. Okay? I'll talk to you
about that in just a minute. more
questions will be answered. This is the
video. We're about to theoretically
watch that video if they were able to
pull it up.
You able to pull it off?
Miracle.
Jesus's final command to all of us was
to go and make disciples. That's why
disciplem and discipling groups are a
vital part of every congregation.
Disciplehip groups are small, typically
gender specific groups that meet on a
weekly basis. It provides a great
environment for people to grow
spiritually, learn to hold each other
accountable in love and with grace, and
it provides a wonderful setting for
relational disciplehip to happen. Many
of our groups use a tool called the
Discovery Bible Study. We got that from
Final Command Ministries, and it's a
simple way to facilitate your
discussions in your disciplehip group. A
typical Discovery Bible study is focused
on a series of scriptures. We've created
bookmarks to help guide you through your
study. On one side of the bookmark is
your scripture list and on the other
side are eight questions. Each question
is designed to help develop a
characteristic of people who follow
Jesus. And we begin with the first
question which is focused on
thankfulness or gratitude. It may feel a
little bit like an icebreaker, but it's
really more than that. It lets us
acknowledge the great things that God is
doing in all of our lives and it's a
great place for us to start our
discussion. So, as we express
thankfulness for what God is doing by
simply asking the question, what are you
thankful for this week? It gives us a
place to celebrate with each other the
things that God is doing in our lives.
And it leads us to the next question
because disciples want to share our
struggles with one another. And so the
second question is what challenges are
you facing? This gives you an
opportunity to share with them that
disciples of Jesus, people who follow
Jesus, we share our joys together and we
share our challenges together. And right
here might be a great place to stop and
have a prayer as you share a struggle or
you express praise and gratitude with
each other. The third question is a
little bit tricky on your very first
week. It's the question that gets to the
discipline of accountability that every
disciplehip group really needs to have.
So the question is, how did you obey,
share, or meet the need that we talked
about from last week? In our first
gathering together, we skip question
number three. But as we look at the
questions below, that question will make
perfect sense for your second gathering
as you explore living life together on a
weekly basis. So now we're ready to
read, reread, and then retell the
passage. And then we're going to ask
four questions to help discover God's
word for us in our meeting today.
&gt;&gt; He is worthy.
&gt;&gt; He is love.
&gt;&gt; He is light.
&gt;&gt; We are not perfect.
&gt;&gt; We are blessed.
&gt;&gt; We are united. I will tell others about
Christ. I will be strong and courageous.
&gt;&gt; I will trust in him.
&gt;&gt; You can serve others.
&gt;&gt; You can show the light of Christ. You
can have hope.
&gt;&gt; You can change the world.
&gt;&gt; We begin with the question, what do we
learn about God? And this really is the
most important question. And I want to
encourage you to camp out on this
question for a little while. Uh most of
us tend to want to apply a scripture as
soon as we read it. And we're going to
get to that. But the best strategy for
your group is to first take some time to
discover what this passage reveals about
the character of God. And once we know
that, we'll be better equipped to ask
this second question. What do we learn
about people? Once we've done that, we
know who the creator is and we we know
who we are as his creation. We're ready
to apply that scripture to our lives.
And so in the third question in this
group, I will, we're asking the
question, if I own this passage for me,
if I hear a word from God today, what
will change about my life? And so we
typically want our responses to begin
with, because of this passage, I will do
this or I will do that. And so now we've
begun the application process, but we're
also encouraged to share this scripture
with someone else. God's word is good
news. And it's good news that we want to
share with others as we seek to make
disciples. And so in our fourth question
in this group, we ask the question, who
am I going to tell about it? And so in
this question, you want to camp out a
little while to really hone down on a
specific person that God may be calling
you to share this good news with.
Typically in our studies when we get to
this question, we might say, "Well,
everyone needs to hear this." And that's
true. But God may be calling you to
share this word with somebody in
particular. And so when we get to that
question, try to come up with a specific
name. So, four simple questions that
help us discover a word from God in the
passage that we've just looked at today.
He is what do we learn about God? We
are. What do we learn about ourselves? I
will. What am I going to do about it?
And you can. Who am I going to tell
about it? The last question really takes
us back to the beginning of our DBS
study. Remember on question two where we
shared challenges that we were facing
with each other? Well, in our last
question, we take a moment to see if
there's a way that we can help one
another face that challenge. Sometimes
the challenges are rather simple and
maybe there's a skill or uh somebody
just has the ability to do something in
the group that will help with that
challenge that was expressed. Or maybe
it's a moment where you stop and you
pray and you uh pledge to that person in
your group, I'm going to be praying for
you this week to help you overcome the
challenge you're facing. But service is
a primary characteristic of a person who
follows Jesus. And so in our DBS groups,
we take a moment to help uh serve one
another and face the challenges uh that
we have in our lives. So in the course
of our study together, we've made some
commitments. In the sixth question,
we've applied this passage to our life
and it's led us to make some I will
statement type commitments. And in our
seventh question, we've thought of an
individual person, someone that we sense
God is calling us to share this word
with them. It'll be really encouraging
for them. And we've also made some
commitments to serve one another. Next
week or in the second week of your
study, you'll come back to question
three. And this time it'll make perfect
sense because it helps us hold each
other accountable for the commitments
that we've made in the second half of
our study together. There you have it.
Discovery Bible study, a great tool to
help you and your disciplehip groups. If
you'd like more information about DBS,
just check the link below. There'll be a
lot of resources to help you
go back to the slides. Okay. So, listen.
Uh, what I'm want to suggest to you that
we didn't really cover that I really
love is where it says reread and retell.
So, what you're doing there is the text
on the other side. You see the text on
the other side? The first one is Matthew
4:23-2.
You see that? So, you read it
in a version and usually everybody's not
got the same version. So, and then you
let someone else read it from a
different version.
All right? So, the first one is a
reader. Second one's a reader. The third
reader, usually a third person, now
retells it. Doesn't explain it. We're
not looking for somebody to explain the
text. That's a different issue. We want
you to just retell what we just heard in
your own language. What did it just say
in your own language? That's it.
That's really simple. And you think,
well, we're not getting very deep here.
That's right. We're not trying to get
really deep here. We're trying to just
get them everybody seeing what's in the
text. Okay. Now, all these bookmarks you
can download and print them yourself.
You can make them this big. You can you
can they're literally when you going to
print it out, they're like that big and
stick them in your Bible. It's so
simple. It might sound complicated, but
you go to the website again, you watch
the video again, watch the video two or
three times. Once you've watched that
video a couple of times, you didn't get
it that time, you will know exactly how
to do this. This is not hard. This is
really simple stuff. It tells you
exactly what to do on the page. I mean,
literally like that. Okay. Now, what
else you can do is you can there's a
video that goes with this. Okay? See
that said video series? That video is
this. And this is the guy I was telling
you about. I would use this this I'd use
this at the beginning and and before you
even launch your study, let this guy do
this because this guy is good. Hey, he's
really good. Listen to him. He's the
preacher from North Boulevard. Really
good job. So, if we can, we want to hear
him now.
When I was in undergraduate school, Bob
Dylan came out with an album in which he
said uh pretty frequently, everybody's
got to serve somebody. And really that's
the truth about life that no matter
whether it's Christ, whether it's
scripture or whatever it is, all of us
are serving somebody. All of us are
using something to order our lives to
give us meaning. Uh all of us have some
sort of filter that we use to prioritize
the things that are most important to
us. We can call them values if we would
like. I prefer the word virtues.
Or uh we can talk about it as a world
view where we think about a mental map
or maybe an operating system in our
minds that helps us to interpret what's
going on and why it matters. Jesus
Christ comes proclaiming what the
English translations often say the
kingdom of God. Another way to think of
that is to use the term the reign of God
or God's reign. And I like the phrase
God's reign better than kingdom of God
simply because I think it's a more
immediate way of talking about what
Jesus is trying to do. So Jesus isn't
coming setting up some physical kingdom
here or there on the planet. Although at
some point Jesus actually will have a
real kingdom. It won't be here on this
earth. It'll be on a new heaven and a
new earth. But when Jesus comes, what
he's really inviting us to do is to join
the reign of God that's already present
everywhere in the world and is just
waiting for our allegiance. And so the
reign of God applies to you wherever you
are right now. It applies to the group
that you're meeting with right now. It
applies to how you treat one another,
whether or not you choose love or
vengeance or anger or hatred. The reign
of God determines what kind of marriage
you're going to have. The reign of God
determines how you're going to look at
your money, what you're going to do with
money. It will help you think through
what it means to have a career in which
you can honor Christ or live out your
Christian principles. The reign of God
helps you decide how you manage your own
emotions,
whether you live with jealousy or envy
or rage or whether you live with hope
and peace and forgiveness. The reign of
God helps you decide what you're going
to do with your body, how you take care
of your body, what you do sexually, how
you uh decide to follow Christ sexually
or to follow really the sort of the
pagan ways of the world. The reign of
God, which Jesus comes announcing,
declaring it's here, is a way of
orienting your life. It's a way of
seeing the entire world. It's a way of
setting the right priorities. And so
when Jesus comes, he comes telling us
everybody's got to serve somebody. and
what he wants you to do is serve God.
So, we're about to start a series on the
sermon on the mount. And one of the ways
to look at the sermon on the mount, in
fact, probably the best way to look at
the sermon on the mount is that it's
something like a constitution, if you
will. Maybe too um technical a term, but
but follow the train of thought for a
moment. that the sermon on the mount is
kind of like a constitution that's here
to help us think about what it looks
like to be in the reign of God in every
area of our lives. So everything Jesus
does in the gospels and beyond the
gospels because remember the
postresurrection Christ is still Jesus
but everything Jesus does in the gospels
and beyond is Jesus showing us what it
means to live in God's reign. But in the
sermon on the mount, Jesus establishes
the foundational principles. He talks
really explicitly about what this is
going to look like when you have
accepted God's reign as the way you
orient your life. God's reign as the way
that you look at the world, the
worldview or the mental map that you use
or the operating system of your mind.
Jesus in the sermon on the mount wants
you to have sort of the basic principles
or the fundamentals or the building
blocks, the ABCs if you will, the the
elements of the kingdom embedded in your
heart. And they're presented for us in
those three chapters, Matthew chapters
5, 6, and 7, in which Jesus begins by
describing the real source of
blessedness, and it is the reign of God.
And he ends by saying, "If you hear what
I have to say and you don't do it,
you're building on a house of sand. But
if you hear what I have to say and you
do it, you're standing on the rock solid
foundation of what it is I want you to
know. Before the sermon on the mount, we
read a summary statement of Jesus's
ministry. And the summary statement is
found in chapter 4 of the Gospel of
Matthew. And this is the text I want you
to think about in this lesson. In the
fourth chapter of the Gospel of Matthew,
beginning at verse 23, Matthew gives uh
sort of a paradigmatic, if you will, a a
programmatic statement of what Jesus's
earthly ministry looked like. And
actually, when we read through the
Gospels or any literature in the
scripture, we ought to be looking for
these paradigmatic statements, these
statements that sort of give you a
synopsis because often times the summary
statements are there to help you
interpret the rest of the gospel. Well,
it's very clear that Matthew expects us
to use these verses as a programmatic
statement, as a summary statement to
help us interpret what else is going to
happen in his gospels. By the way, we're
all taught to write that way. So, we all
do summary statements when we write. Uh,
usually if we write well, we do. But in
antiquity, they were also taught to
write this way. So, Matthew's just
following uh standard writing procedures
of the first century. Listen to what he
says, and then I want you to think about
this in your group today.
Verse 23. Jesus went throughout Galilee
teaching in their synagogues preaching
the good news of the kingdom and healing
every disease and sickness among the
people. Now, in a moment, I want you to
read the rest of this text, starting at
verse 23 and going down to the end of
the chapter. And as you work through
that, you'll have the opportunity to
apply this word to your life and to hear
what God is saying to you and how you
and your congregation can live out the
truth of this text. But right now, I
just want us to focus on that one verse,
verse 23, because Matthew 4:23 is the
summary statement of the earthly
ministry of Jesus in Mark's gospel. And
what you'll see is a couple of things
that really ought to permeate your
discussion. The first thing is I want
you to notice Jesus went. He went.
So, one of my critiques and deep
concerns about many churches around
today and one reason why we really are
serious about launching New Day Churches
such as yours is that many of our
churches are no longer going. That for
many of our churches, they're just
staying and they consider that they've
done the work of God if they just have a
church service. You desperately need to
know that if you're going to follow
Jesus, what you're doing in this meeting
today is the pep rally for the game. But
the game is not today. The game is
fought tomorrow. It's fought the next
day. It's fought throughout the course
of the week as you take disciplehip, the
good news of Christ, the reign of God
out into the workplace, out into school,
out into your relationships, down to the
coffee shop, or wherever it is you are
in the gym or whatever it is. that the
reign of God, that's the game. This is
just your pep rally. If all you do is
this, if it's just your weekly
gathering, that's all you have. You're
not doing what Jesus did because Jesus
went. He didn't stay. He didn't come. He
went. So, start there. And then I want
you to notice that there are three
things that Jesus does in this text. And
these three things really are a great
summary of the rest of the Gospel of
Matthew, at least right up until the
crucifixion of Jesus. First, we read
that Jesus was teaching in their
synagogues. So just a word about
teaching here. Uh so I've been preaching
and teaching for a number of years now.
Actually for decades. It's it's a little
hard to say that but it's true. And what
I know about teaching is that teaching
largely is a matter of giving proper
information. So you know that but let's
just say it that in teaching what we're
trying to do is give people the kinds of
instructions that are necessary for
building a reign of God worldview.
that you really uh you can't be in the
kingdom without knowing and embracing
certain fundamental truths. So uh this
actually kind of flies in the face of um
I think some spirituality in America
where spirituality in America can
oftenimes feel pretty light. Uh not a
lot of theology, not a lot of depth and
not not a lot of expectation that you'll
ever go deep. Jesus comes teaching
because he expects people to go deep
into the things of God. And so you
really need to establish in your life
the kinds of habits that will equip you
to go deep. And nothing will help you
with that as much as a deep reading and
application of the sermon on the mount,
which is what you're about to do in this
series. Second, Jesus comes preaching
the good news. Now, a couple of things
need to be said here. First, the good
news Jesus is preaching is about the
reign of God. So Jesus is not just
preaching good sermons. I want you to
notice Jesus is not just preaching
social justice. He's not preaching
political theories. He's not talking
about all the things that might concern
21st century people. He's preaching
God's reign. It's a very specific thing
he preaches. I want you to note second
that Matthew calls it good news. So part
of the good news of God's reign is the
bad news of our sin. So anytime we want
to talk about the good news of what
Jesus brings, it is important that we
believe that there's bad news first. And
the bad news is separate from God, we're
lost. But that really makes the good
news what's so good? Because if we're
not lost, if you don't believe people
are really lost, what's so good about
the good news? If everybody's already
okay, if everybody is 90% saved and they
just need a little 10% booth, there's
boo. There's no good news in that. The
good news is that God takes those of us
who are dead, the whole world dead in
rebellion, and he raises us up in Jesus
Christ. And I also want you to notice
that what Jesus does is he preaches
this, he proclaims it. So a word about
the word preaching. If teaching is
giving information, preaching is working
for transformation. So in preaching,
what we're trying to do is persuade
people. And I do want to encourage you
to um to give attention to this concept
of persuasion. In the 21st century,
certainly in the west, many of us have a
low view of persuasion. We think there's
something cheap about persuasion. that
persuasion is really about sales.
There's something inauthentic about
persuasion. But listen, all of us are
busy persuading people all day long.
You're going to spend the rest of your
life trying to persuade your children to
do something, trying to persuade your
husband or your wife, trying to persuade
your boss, trying to persuade those who
work for you, trying to persuade the
police officer, trying to persuade the
government, trying to persuade your
neighbors. Persuasion is part of life.
Jesus comes trying to persuade people
that you need to embrace the reign of
God. And I want to encourage you to do
this.
As a follower of Jesus, you're not just
telling people what's right and wrong.
You're trying to persuade them. Most of
us need not just information, but we
really do need transformation. So, I can
tell you this. I know that when I down
four or five hamburgers in the course of
a day, I know that my cholesterol goes
out the roof. And I know that it makes
me fat. I know those things. So, why do
I do it? It's not knowledge. It's not a
lack of knowledge. It's not education,
is it? I know it. I know it quite well.
As a matter of fact, it's persuasion
that I lack. It's the willingness to
give in to what I already know. So,
let's become people who not only have
information, but are interested in
persuading people to follow Jesus. And
last, I want you to notice Jesus goes
everywhere healing their disease,
diseases, and sicknesses. That is Jesus
walks in the power of God. Now, in other
texts in the New Testament, we discover
Jesus walks in the power of the Holy
Spirit. Luke chapter 4 has a lot to say
about this. the very first verse, the
14th verse, the 18th and 19th verses of
chapter 4, Jesus worked in the Holy
Spirit. So I want to encourage you this
sort of as we wrap up this lesson, I
want to encourage you to follow what
Jesus does that he gives information, he
gives persuasion, but he lives in the
power of the Holy Spirit. And you can
too. In fact, you must. We don't have
the power within ourselves. But God
gives us his Holy Spirit to transform us
and to make us like Jesus, to equip us,
to enable us, to empower us, to make us
bold and confident. And as Jesus went
out and did powerful, wonderful things
for the reign of God, you can, too.
We're about to embark on an awesome
study of the uh sermon on the mount and
how it forms a foundation and a basis
for what it means to order your life
around the reign of God. But in advance
of that, remember whatever we do, we
want to be taught and we want to be
teachers of these truths. We want to be
persuaded of them deep in our heart. And
we want to be people who persuade others
and we want to be empowered by the
spirit of God to go live out the reign
of God. So read these verses, Matthew 4
23 through the end of the chapter and u
and let's hear what God has to say. I'll
see you next time.
Just this one bookmark that's 10
studies. There's a second bookmark. You
got a year of studying with friends
easily that you could generate other
people that might want to dig deeper and
become a Christian that are only
marginally Christian or maybe not going
regularly. So this is that's the idea of
this study is to find those people. It
might be that you just invite other
members of this congregation and in the
process and two couples from here do
that in the process of this study.
Theoretically you could invite someone
else into the study and then they could
be reached. We're looking for a way to
reach people.
They're not all going to come in this
building. That's the issue. How do we do
that? Everybody's not going to come into
prospective members class. But here's a
way that you can have these little
bookmarkers. You can do this every week.
You show a video just before you start
and get you really started. You walk
through these questions that they have.
You read the text yourself. Do you see
how simple this is? This is really
simple. And it's a good study, too. This
guy's smart. You're going to see he
really knows his stuff about the sermon
on the mount. There's no question here.
This is good. And and so now what I need
to do because I got very little time
left. I want to give you just a few
thoughts. Every week I want to try to do
this, give you a few thoughts on things
maybe you need to try to avoid when you
actually get down to studying with
somebody. So if you're able by this to
launch into a study of what they need to
do to be saved, cuz that's a study by
itself. Obviously, that's not what this
is about. This is trying to get to that.
You understand? I want to get you to
have a study. How do you get to the
story? This is a method that will get
you to that study. And we'll be looking
at a the ABCs next week. So, you'll see
that. We're going to do that. I'm going
to walk you through that hopefully how
to do that. But right now, I just want
you to get in your head that when you
get there, here's some things to avoid.
Let's read this with me. And I,
brethren, when I came to you, did not
come with excellency of speech. You do
not have to be great at this. In fact,
the weaker you are, the more effective
you might be or of wisdom declaring to
you the testimony of God. It's not about
us being super smart. In fact, some of
the best evangelists I've ever known
would not be necessarily considered a
high IQ. They're just really good at it.
But I determine not to know anything
among you except Jesus Christ and him
crucified. Stick to the basics. Work on
what you know. Don't try to overthink
when you're reaching out to somebody. I
was with you in weakness. If if you're
not aware of your weaknesses, you should
not be doing evangelism until you become
aware of your weaknesses. If you don't
know that you've got failings, uh you
could probably run people off. People
who are arrogant just run people away
from the gospel. If you're aware of your
weaknesses, your fears, your tremblings,
you're more likely to be able to. So if
you don't feel good about doing this,
you're exactly the person we're wanting.
If you think, "Well, I'm not any good at
this." Exactly. You're the one. You're
the one. It's not the other guy. It's
you. And my speech and my preaching were
not with persuasive words of human
wisdom. It's not that you don't
persuade, but you persuade with this,
not with this. Okay? And that's the and
that you're facing. So those are just
some pointers. We're going to have a
scripture every week. We'll look at
that. Just some things to avoid. Quit
this business about why I wouldn't be
good at this. If you think you wouldn't
be good at it, you're exactly the one we
want. Okay. Have y'all seen this? Do
y'all know all about this?
The brethren, the Lord is flying around
the moon right now. Did y'all see that?
If you get a chance, listen to him. He
talks a little bit on the on YouTube.
It's really good. He is a faithful
member of the church.
You might use that as a point of
discussion with somebody. I was just
seeing that this week and I was
listening to him talk on YouTube. A
really nice guy and he's a member of the
church. He actually attends two
different congregations. They're about
20 20 minutes apart there in Texas. And
I am just, this is the first time,
folks. There's not been a Church of
Christ preacher ever gone around the
room. Now, if y'all are flat-earthers,
forget what I just said.
Okay, guys, that's all I got. Anybody
got something they want to talk about?
Yes, sir.
&gt;&gt; What I love about this point
is not
&gt;&gt; Yep. Just read it yourself. Let let the
word of God be the word of God, not the
word of us. And God's word will do what
it needs to do. And if we all said amen,
that'd be good, right? Amen. You know
what that means? We're done. And y'all
have a lovely day.
