Now, CS Lewis. Oh, by the way, I want to
thank Ethan. If you like the way these
look, I haven't suddenly got talented.
That's not the case at all. This is uh
Ethan did this work and Heath helped in
a little bit, but this is mainly Ethan's
work. And so, uh God bless you, Ethan,
for the work you do tonight. U this is a
partial quote. I'm going to give you the
whole quote. This is CS Lewis. Most of
you know CS Lewis or at least how
intelligent he was. I want to read the
full quote. It says, "Mankind
is so fallen that no man can be trusted
with unchecked power over his fellows."
Aristotle said that some people were
only fit to be slaves. Now that sounds
all wrong, but listen. He says, "I do
not contradict him." Listen, that sounds
really bad until you get this last part.
But I reject slavery because I see no
men fit to be masters.
What he's really saying is the only
thing we're really fit to be is slaves.
That we're not qualified to be over
other people because we develop
attitudes and we sometimes take
advantage of people. And really, that's
kind of how we're starting this is that
sometimes people are exploited
and you will be one of them more than
likely at some point in your life if you
haven't already been. What could be then
the this explanation of exploitation? If
if there is a God and we believe there
is there is a Jesus Christ and the Holy
Spirit what's the e explanation of the
exploitation that we have to experience
in our life one concept that you have to
get is the reality of exploitation if
you think that you're there is no
exploitation I think you're got your
head in the sand uh just from Joseph's
story alone we start off with the plots
that were against him. Uh he's thrown
into a pit. We all have plots and pits.
And then there is always a potterer in
our life, someone who just is the boss.
Then there's perversions and in this
case, some woman trying to pull somebody
down.
Then there are prisons, things we get
locked up into. And then there's
palaces. I've given you the wrong uh
verse. Oh yeah, he's fixed it. Okay,
that's good. It is Genesis 41. In my
notes, it was wrong. If you have the
outline, it's wrong. It's Genesis 41.
The tensions of this exploitation should
be looked at though diligently
because what people
designed to break you with
can be God's design to build you up.
If you'll listen to it, Exodus 1 and
verse 12, but the more they afflicted
them, the more they multiplied
and grew.
If we could take that into heart, a lot
of our exploitations would not be nearly
as difficult to get through that we'd
see it as something that was maybe
taking us to a higher plane. the premise
of exploitation.
You cannot measure God's ultimate
verdict on your life with these
temporary valleys of pain.
It's so easy to sum up sum up your life.
Well, I'm going through this valley.
It's the end of everything or I'm in
terrible pain. Well, we have quite a few
examples of that. You got Joseph in
prison in Genesis 39. You got Jonah in
the whale or the big fish in in Jonah
chapter 1. You got Jeremiah in the pit.
To me, that's the pit of despair. If
you've never read that section where
he's up to his knees in mire and mud and
in the bottom of a pit that they had to
lower rags down to get him out of, Job
is in the loss of everything we know he
had. And then, of course, Jesus is on
the cross. And you think, well, there it
is. It's terrible. There's no good
coming out of this. But that's not the
end of the story. Joseph ends up in a
palace. We're going to talk more about
that. Jonah saves Nineveh. Jeremiah's
prophecies all come true. Job receives a
double blessing for all his troubles.
And then Jesus saves the world through
his
trouble. Could it be that the
explanation of our exportation when
people are not kind to us is finally
found in three truths that are in this
text? We're just going to look at three
little simple things in this text. And
it might give you insight. It might help
you develop vision so that you can see
through what you're going through.
Number one, the intent of the enemy.
This is the setup of the whole story. It
says in verse 20, "But as for you, you
meant evil against me." He's talking
about his brothers. His brothers meant
to kill him. The plot was personal. It
wasn't impersonal. It was a personal
plot. They saw his coat of many colors
and they resented it every day. He's the
dreamer and they conspired to kill him.
Maybe he had a bad attitude. I don't
know. But Genesis 37 says they hated
him.
That's a statement. Your brothers hate
you. And the pit was painful because he
was rejected. He was literally stripped
and he was going to be sold. But here he
is in the bottom of the pit. Interesting
thing it says there was no water in that
pit. And they all sat down to eat. So
they're eating a meal. He didn't get a
meal. He didn't even get water.
He's left there virtually to die and
that's his brothers. And then the
principle though was providential
because
the adversity is very similar to that
which happened through Judas.
It is surprising at how often the
trouble that comes into your life comes
at you from someone you never would have
thought have caused trouble for you.
I don't know if you can receive it, but
this is these are scriptures that are
used about Judas. Psalm 41:9,
my close friend has lifted his heel
against me.
Psalm 55:12-14.
If an enemy were insulting me, I could
endure it. But it is you, my close
friend.
But I want to tell you that the enemy
never gets the final word because the
enemy is not that person. It is not the
brothers. It isn't who you think it is.
It isn't Potterer. It isn't Potterer's
wife. That's not who the enemy is. It's
not any of those people. It's not the
jailer. The enemy is an unseen enemy.
That's your real enemy. And we must
learn to see this setup because the
intent is awful. But it's the intent of
the enemy. It is not the intent of God.
It isn't often even the intent of the
person you think the intent is. It is of
the Lord that we're going to see how
this works out. Let's take a look.
Second lesson that we need to see is the
intervention of the almighty God. This
is a shift in the story because he goes
on to say, this is at the end. These are
years later. His father is dead now.
They're scared he's going to kill uh
kill him with the power he had. Says in
verse 20, "But God meant it for good."
So you meant evil against me, but God
meant what happened in my life. This
exploitation, he meant it for good. And
so we look at that from a few different
principles. One is the presence was
invisible.
You know, sometimes you wonder, well, is
God silent? What's going on? Is he
absent from my life?
But the truth is is that he is with you
all the way and he's in the pit with you
and he's in potterer's house with you.
He's in the prison with you. How do I
know that? Because Genesis 39 says that
about Joseph. It repeats it three times.
Genesis 39:2, Genesis 39:21, and Genesis
39:23.
The Lord was with Joseph.
I know it may feel like he's not there
sometimes. I know you may think, "Oh, I
he's left me. I'm no good. I'm out. He
doesn't care." That can feel that way.
But the Lord never left Joseph. The
Almighty God was always there. And the
plan was always there. You see, this had
been prophesied that he was going to end
up in great power. It's hard to see that
when you're in the middle of the pit,
right? It's really hard to see it. God
took the raw materials of the rejection
that he was experiencing and he
repurposed them as a road mount to take
him to where he wanted him to be and
what he promised him he was going to be.
But it came rather oddly according to
Genesis 49. It came through the chief
butler two years after he forgot all
about him. after he forgot all about it.
The principle now wanted you to see is
not only there's a plan, but there is a
principle that's always supernatural.
And you really need to see this.
What is often meant to starve your faith
is the very thing that forces you to
stretch your faith.
I know that's hard to see, but it really
is true. The hardest part of this is to
see that in Genesis 41, I'm going to
read verse 14. It says, "Then Pharaoh
sent and called Joseph, and they brought
him quickly out of the dungeon, and he
shaved, changed his clothes, and came to
Pharaoh." It's typical jungeon, nasty.
Verse 15. And Pharaoh said to Joseph,
"I've had a dream, and there is no one
who can interpret it, but I've heard it
said of you." The butler told him this,
"That you can understand a dream to
interpret it." I love his answer. Do you
see it? Verse 16. So Joseph answered
Pharaoh, saying, "It is not in me.
I don't do this.
It's not in me. God will give Pharaoh an
answer of peace. I don't have that. I
love that.
Can you see yourself humbly when it
looks like everything's going the wrong
way?
At least you didn't smell bad at this
time.  You know, we must learn
to see this shift that God makes take
place.
We're being exploited. Something's going
wrong. Things are not going our way.
It's really bad. We're starting to think
he's forgotten us all. whatever this
burden is that you're bearing and it's
just going awful and then all of a
sudden this little shift,
the butler remembered you.
Just one person
said the right thing at the right time
at the right place and all of a sudden
you mattered to somebody and all of a
sudden God began to turn this around. It
is the intervention of the almighty God
that's happening at that moment. He
hadn't forgotten you. He knows who you
are and he cares about you. The third
lesson here is the insight of the
destiny of your faith. It goes on to say
this is this is what he actually sees
after he's been there. Now we we know he
went into captivity when he's about 17.
We know that he came to the seat of
power when he's about 30. This is about
two years later. So he's about 32 33
about the time that Jesus was crucified
in his life. So he's about that age
right here. We also know that he appears
to be older than the Pharaoh that was on
the throne because he says, "I've become
a father to him." So we know he's gone
through a lot. He's there. Has he seen
it? Well, he's been married now and he's
had children. And if you look at the
names of the children, you begin to see
that he's seeing something. He's
starting to see something that he hadn't
seen previously. I'm sure there must
have been days where he was mad at his
brothers.
I'm sure there had to be some days that
he didn't know what to do. But look what
he says in verse 20. In order to bring
it about as it is this day to save many
people alive. Now when he talks to his
brothers, he didn't just save many
people. Even though that's true and he
was saving all these people of the
world, it was his family particularly he
focuses in on when he talks to his
brothers. If I wouldn't, we got five
more years. He says of this famine and
if I wasn't here, you might not even
survive this famine. It's going to be
that bad. So he sees it not just for the
world, but he sees it for his own
family. And he had suddenly had some
insight into his destiny. Do you have
any insight into your destiny yet?
Have you seen it yet?
The perspective of redemption is
interesting. Joseph could stand before
the men who hurt him and see past their
sin
to God's sovereign grace. He could be
kind.
Now, they hadn't been. I mean, they made
him look like he's dead. But look at
what he says to them in Genesis 45:5.
Do not therefore be grieved or angry
with yourselves because you sold me
here. For God sent me before you to
preserve life.
I've seen it.
Have you seen it? Or do you only see the
negative? You only see the negative of
what happens to you.
Have you seen it yet? Listen. The prison
of retaliation,
forgiveness, and listen to me. This is
really true. And a lot of people don't
understand forgiveness. Even some of our
people don't understand it. I can tell
by the way they talk about it.
Forgiveness is not excusing the offense.
It is freeing yourself from the prison
of bitterness.
Some people need to free themselves of
that bitterness.
It'll lock you up.
It'll lock you up and make you a mean
person. You got to learn to forgive.
Genesis 45 11-15.
I will provide for you. This is what he
says to his brothers. For there are
still five years of famine. Verse 15.
Moreover, he kissed all of his brothers
and wept over them. And after that his
brothers talked with them. After he
kissed him and held on to him and all
that, well, maybe he's not going to kill
us now. They they still weren't sure.
But that prison had turned away his
bitterness. Now, isn't that interesting?
Instead of becoming more bitter, he got
better because of his bitterness.
The principle of vindication though is
critical. When you know God is your
vindicator, the one that's on your side
and is working out for you all things
together for good to those who love the
Lord, to those who are the called
according to his purpose. When you know
that is true for you and you really
believe it, not that you've mentally
asent to it or you said it sometime, but
you really believe it because it's clear
by your attitude about what's happening
to you. But when you know God is your
vindicator, you stop trying to settle
the score.
I'll fix his wagon.
No, you won't.
Yeah, yours will get fixed if you try
that. Genesis 15:es 15-20 is a great
text to read about this. I'm not going
to read the whole thing. Let me read
verse 17. Please forgive the trespass of
the thy servants. That's what his
brothers said to him. We're just your
servants. No, they're not. They're his
brothers. Please forgive her trespass.
Verse 19, Joseph said, "Do not be
afraid." His dad's dead, so they think
he he's going to get them now. Dad's
gone. Do not be afraid. For am I in the
place of God? Too many people think they
are. Too many people think they've got
to deal the retribution that God hasn't
done yet.
We must learn to see to have the sight
of the inside of the destiny of our
faith. Can you see it? If if you could
just open your mind just for a moment
and see what Joseph saw,
if you could see it,
then your burdens could possibly become
blessings in your life.
We can see the intent of the enemy. The
enemy means you no good. The devil has
no desire for you to have anything
positive. He wants to wreck your faith.
He wants to wreck us as a church. He
wants to do everything he can to
literally cause you to walk away. That's
what he wants.
No human being wants that.
Quit thinking they do.
It's the devil working through them.
It's not them. But you got to know the
intent. It's not It's personal. I want
to tell you the devil is personally
angry with you.
Then you need to see the intervention of
the almighty. How many times how many
times have you been pulled out of the
fire? How many times were you close to
death? How many times were things going
the wrong way? How many times did you
not know how you were going to make ends
meet? How many times has everything gone
wrong financially for you? And somehow
you ate. Somehow you had a home. Somehow
you had clothes. Somehow you had family.
Somehow you had friends. How did that
work out? The intervention of the
almighty God. That's it. You got to see
it though. God just just listening to me
right now. You need to see it in your
life. You need to review your life and
see it. Can you Can you look back? Have
you done that? Look back and said, "Oh,
God, thank you for getting me through
that. I don't know how in the world we
got through that. Thank you, Lord. But
more than that, can you see the insight
of the destiny of all of our faith? You
know, I got to tell you though, this is
the truth. While I'm saying all that, I
think you need to see it. You know, some
have been so exploited in their lives.
They've been exploited so much, so
often, so long,
they can't see it.
I'm serious.
They could come to church until they
died and then never see it.
They've had a rough go
and they don't see it. They can only see
the way of being exploited and they're
stuck in it.
That's why people go on drugs.
That's why people get drunk all the
time.
They don't know how to get out. They
just circle circle circle circle circle
circle circle all the way back to poor
pitiful me. Poor pitiful me. Everybody's
being bad to me. Oh, it's so terrible,
terrible, terrible. Everybody,
everybody's after me
and they're stuck in it. It reminds me
of this story. This was in a Universal
Press Syndicate. It said that there were
three trained dolphins that escaped from
their performing pin at a resort in
Kargo, Florida.
I don't know when this happened. I tried
to figure it out, but I couldn't figure
out. Anyway, they were discovered
several days later in a lagoon off
Kiscane. It's about 55 miles away. And
at, this is what's interesting. At 10:00
a.m., at 2:00 p.m., and at 4:00 p.m.,
they performed tricks
in the bay there. Apparently, they were
hoping to be fed. That's what's always
happened. at 10:00 a.m. at 2:00 p.m. and
4 p.m. That's when they did their show.
They're out there doing tricks, waiting
on to get fade. And sure enough, the the
Sun Sentinel reported that passing Boers
were all too happy to throw them a fish.
So, they got it. But you see, the
dolphins were stuck
in their burden.
Are you stuck in your exploitation?
Can you not see the victory?
Can you see the cross connection in
this?
They meant evil at Calvary,
but God meant it for
good.
Mark 15 29 it says they were wagging
their heads saying, "Aha,
you who destroy the temple and build it
in three days, save yourself. Come down
from the cross. then we'll blame. Yeah,
right.
What they didn't say is God so loved the
world that what they were going to do
was meant for good to save the world.
Can you see the triumph
at its climax of the cross itself?
I know he died, right?
Where's the climax?
He died. It looked really dark. Eh, been
a dark day. Even a good man. Even by
heathen standards, he's still dead.
Three days dead, dark.
Psalm 30:5,
weeping may endure for a night, but joy
comes in the morning. Have you had that
night?
Oh, how many times?
How many times?
Weeping
all night.
The joy comes in the morning.
Persistent,
undeniable
praise for our God. Joy comes in the
morning cuz after he's crucified in the
morning, John 20:12 says two angels were
sitting in white, one at the head and
the other at the feet where the body of
Jesus had laid. So literally you have an
angel over here and an angel over here
where the one who died to show you mercy
had sat.
You ever heard of the mercy seat?
Can you see it? Now
the problem is seeing it, isn't it? Once
you see it, you can't unsee it. Once you
see God working in your life, you can't
unsee it. But you've got to see the
intent of the enemy. It's the devil.
It's not the people. The intervention of
the Almighty. You got to see it. He was
there every step of the way with Joseph.
By the way, he's with you. And the
insight of the destiny.
You meant it for evil,
but God meant it for good. Amen. God
meant it for good. If you're here
tonight and you haven't given your life
to the Lord, it may be because you've
been exploited and you think life will
never be better. I hope that's not how
you are. I hope you're not the dolphin
stuck in that act all your life. I hope
you're able to see with eyes of faith
and come to a realization that all those
burdens you had have led to a blessing
that even tonight you could repent of
your sins, confess the name of Christ
and be baptized and joy comes in the
morning. You could be saved this very
night. If you need to rededicate your
life, whatever you need, we want you to
come if you need to while we stand and
what we
