I am pretty sure if I'm not mistaken
that the last time that I got up to
speak was I think it was like right
before I went to college. I was 18. Uh
so that was 10 years ago now, which uh
is sickening to think about. Um and it
was like 54 minutes. Um,
I promise I'm going to do my best not to
do that today because I don't know how
it got there, but sometimes I'll be like
listening to music on my phone and that
lesson pops up and I hear my voice and I
don't know how you guys sat there for 54
minutes of of me talking and if my voice
still sounds like that, if you remember,
just don't tell me because I'd like to
think uh that it's be better now. But um
but no, it's it's been quite a long time
since since I've been able to get up
here and and give a lesson and and thank
you to Rex and uh for extending the pull
pit to me this morning to allow me to do
this again. Um you know, it was such a
blessing back in the day getting to do
the uh the youthled services and and get
up and speak. Um and then you know,
things get busy and school and jobs and
everything else gets in the way. So I'm
I'm very grateful to be up here to to
speak in front of you today. Um so with
that before we begin uh let's go to our
God in prayer.
Father we we thank you so much for
everything that you do. God we we thank
you so much for the hope that you
provide. God we thank you for uh the
faith that you have uh instilled into
each one of us. Lord we thank you for
the call that we were able to uh come
and and just put our faith and trust
into you. God, we thank you for Christ
Jesus. Uh who we've already heard so
much about this morning. Uh we thank you
for um our forgiveness, Lord. We thank
you for our redemption. We thank you for
our justification, for our
sanctification. Lord, we thank you for
everything that you do for us and all
that we have to look forward to and the
promises that you have given. Lord, we
thank you that you are a faithful God
and that you stand by your word. And we
pray all this in Christ Jes Jesus. Amen.
So um obviously we just finished the
time of the year where we all like to uh
celebrate the birth of Christ, right? So
we all uh celebrate Jesus and his birth
and Mary and um you know the Christmas
season uh Jesus is the reason for the
season. Um and this is such a wonderful
thing right to celebrate and it's a such
a wonderful thing uh for us to uh really
turn our attention to at this time.
But ultimately, what does it mean,
right? Because I mean, think about all
of the people out around the world who
maybe this is their time for Jesus,
right? January 1st or 4th or whatever
today is, right? Okay. Well, time for
Jesus has kind of passed now. It'll come
back around in about 360ome days. But
we're we're not just focusing on that
for well, you know, it's just what we do
at this time of the year. There's a
reason that we do it and it's because it
means something to us, right? So
obviously there's a lot more of what
Jesus birth and what that means for us
as humanity and for us believers than
what we're going to cover today in the
lesson. So I'll let you think about that
for a minute. And while you do, I just
want to tell you uh a story about this
man. So there's this man. He was he was
on a voyage. Uh he was out in the
desert, right? And uh he was found a
cave. Uh night was coming soon, right?
And even though the deserts get very hot
in the day, they get pretty cold at
night. Uh so the the temperature was
starting to drop and he you know, who
knows if he's going to stumble across
something else for shelter. So he
decides to uh pack up his bag uh go into
the cave to get to get a good night
rest. So as he enters uh this cave, he
lays down his sleeping bag. He gets
everything set up ready to, you know,
maybe try and make a fire or something.
Uh, and he stumbles across this lamp,
right? So, naturally, as anyone would do
if they found a lamp in a cave, he
picked it up and he rubbed the lamp and
out came a genie. So, genie comes out
and says, "You have found my lamp. I
will now grant you three wishes." Man,
how cool is that? So, he's all excited
and he's thinking. He's like, "Okay, I
got three wishes. You know, don't mess
this up." Right? I've we've heard the
stories of people who just mess it up.
Don't mess this up. So, he's thinking
really hard. I just I don't know. He's
like, I got it. Okay. My first wish. You
know, I really want I wish that there
was a world with no lawyers.
Genie says, well, your wish is my
command. That's been done. Um, thank you
very much. You have no more wishes. The
man's standing back like, what? What do
you that I've said one wish? You said I
have three wishes. The genius looked
back at him and said, "Sue me." Um
so
ultimately right though this kind of
goes to show like we need to be careful
about how we speak right we need to be
careful about the words that we say so
ultimately the the I know it's I don't
have anything up here but the the title
of the lesson just so you get an idea uh
if not from the scripture and from the
previous song uh but is unshakable faith
and hope is the name and so we need to
be careful right in how we speak and
what we say because the meaning of hope
has often been watered down, right?
Especially outside of these walls, but
maybe even in our own speaking to one
another, we have watered down the
meaning of hope, right? And in many
conversations, we hear this word hope
being used interchangeably more with the
idea of like wishful thinking, right?
Kind of like a genie. Um,
some examples, right? We hope to win the
lottery. We hope for material items,
right? We hope for that Lamborghini. We
hope for the mansion. Uh we hope for
the, you know, 10 karat diamond ring,
whatever else. We hope for fame, right?
Whatever else that you can think of that
we hope for that you might hope for. And
I'm not saying that this is bad to have
like aspirations in life, right? Or to
hope for things. And it's also not bad
to work hard to get those things, right?
To get the mansion, to get the car, to
get the diamond ring.
But the big thing is is that this type
of hope is fundamentally different than
the hope that the Bible teaches, right?
The hope that is in Christ. So what is
the meaning of hope? So the Greek word
that is used for hope is elpedo. Uh I'm
not going to spell it for you because
you're not going to write it down
anyway. Uh and that comes from the root
word elpas. So elpedo comes from the
root word alpis. And the meaning of this
right so in and the understanding that
they would have from this word is the
expectation
of good or joyful and confident
expectation. So again that's the
expectation of good or a joyful and
confident expectation.
Right? Don't miss that word there
expectation. Right? That's very
different than wishful thinking. I do
not go and buy a lottery ticket and
expect to win. Right? I hope to win. I
wishfully think to win, but I don't
expect to win. But the word that is used
again and again in the Bible is a
confident expectation. Very different.
So the exact opposite of what we see in
that worldly hope.
But before we can ever really truly come
to this hope, we must have faith, right?
We need to have faith in the one who can
provide the hope. So, we're going to
look at three points this morning uh in
Jesus life that produces hope, true
hope. Uh and it is a hope that can
change us and it is a hope that can
result in nothing short of our worship
and praise. So, point number one this
morning, if you're uh writing anything
down, point number one is faith in Jesus
life produces hope in Christlike living.
Again, that is faith in Jesus life
produces hope in Christlike living. If
you have your Bibles with you, if you uh
want to turn over to the book of Mark,
we're going to read chapter 1 16-1 17.
That's the gospel Mark chapter 1 16-1 17
it reads as he was going along by the
Sea of Galilee saw Simon and Andrew the
brother of Simon casting a net in the
sea for they were fishermen and Jesus
said to them follow me and become
fishers of men right and we know what
happens next they immedi immediately
leave everything and follow him. And
then if you would flip over to uh the
Gospel of Luke
6 and verse 40.
Luke chapter 6
and this again here is the words Christ.
A pupil is not above his teacher, but
everyone after he has been fully trained
will be like his teacher.
So, I know that we've spoken about this
quite a bit. I know that uh Chaz has
spoken about this in some of his
previous lessons about this idea of
disciplehip, right? And being a
disciple. And that's a big deal if
you're a first century Jew, right? I
mean it it's a it's a big deal to be
called apart to have a rabbi to have
somebody who is going to teach you the
way of which they do their craft
and you
your job is to imitate to become like
that rabbi. Right? So in Christ here
calling Simon and Andrew, right? And
then obviously at some point calling the
other apostles, he's calling them to a
life of imitation, right? He's calling
them, hey, come learn from me, become
like me so I can send you out to do the
things that I did, right? And
ultimately, I mean, the the goal of a
disciple to the rabbi would be, if you
can't see me and you just hear the words
that are coming from me and don't
recognize my voice, you shouldn't be
able to tell me apart from my rabbi.
Right? We should be one and the same.
So Jesus lived on this life as a human,
right? We all believe that. Amen. Um we
just said that we celebrated his birth,
right? That was a human birth. So he
came and he was here as a human. Uh he
felt uh the things that we feel. He went
through the things that we go through,
right? He was tempted. How do we know
this? We're told about it in the
gospels, right? And let's not be naive,
right? This is not the only time that
Jesus was tempted, right? I I feel like
sometimes it it it can sometimes it's
easy to think like, ah yeah, man, he
went through those temptations. That was
really hard cuz he was fasting. But and
then we kind of forget about the rest of
everyday life. I mean, think about the
temptations that Jesus went through on a
daily basis. Think about the temptations
you go through on a daily basis. Why
would we expect for him to be any
different? Not only that, but I mean,
he's kind of the target. Um, and he has
a pretty high standard that he has to
keep. Um, so he was tempted. He felt
pain,
right? I mean, he was scourged. He had a
crown of thorns driven into his head.
He was laid on a rugged cross and then
he was had spikes driven through his
hands and feet. He felt pain.
Rewind in life, right? I'm sure that he
was running around playing as a child,
tripped, fell, scraped his knee, cried,
got hurt. He felt pain.
He felt our human emotion, right? He
felt happy. He felt sad. He grieved,
right? He felt angry.
same things that you and I feel. He felt
tired. And imagine walking as far as
they would walk. Imagine performing the
miracles, having to talk and be with all
the people all day long. At night, you
just want to lay your head down and just
rest, right? He felt tired. He felt
hungry. I mean, I would say probably a
majority of the stories of Jesus in the
Bible, there's food involved than there
are times where food's not involved,
right? Jesus got hungry. He needed to
eat. again back to the temptation 40
days in the wilderness. Um and then of
course he would get thirsty, right? Just
like you and I, you know, we get
thirsty. He's hanging there on the
cross, right? I thirst. Uh but they gave
him no water, right? So he was human. He
was fully human. He felt and did things
that humans do.
And so with that,
right, we have the blueprint of what
humanity is to look like.
We have the blueprint that we carry
around in our pockets of this is how a
human lives,
right? And that's in three short years.
There's a lot of time of Jesus, the
majority of Jesus' life we don't have
recorded,
right? But in the three short years that
we do have recorded, there is a wealth
of what it is to be a human, how it is
to live as a human and how it is to live
like Christ lived. Right? The gospels
show time and time again how he acted,
how he reacted, how he treated others,
right? How he loved. Shows how he
approached and how he talked to God.
Shows how he approached and how he
talked to others. shows how he handled
his anger. It shows how he humbled
himself, right? How he was uh showed
humility in things. The list goes on and
on and on of the little tiny pieces that
we can look at and that we can see and
say, "That needs a little bit of
tweaking in my life. That needs a lot of
tweaking in my life." But in making
these small fine-tune adjustments, we
become more and more and more like
Christ. and the spirit within us
sanctifies us more and more and more to
become like Christ.
So, right, we've all fallen short. We've
all sinned, right? That's done. It's
happened. It's going to happen again.
But Jesus life produces this hope in us
that we can get back up, right? that we
can open our scripture, that we can open
the Bible, that we can fine-tune these
pieces in our life and become more like
him and live a life that reflects him.
Point number two this morning, uh faith
in Jesus death produces hope and
justification.
Right? We're we're hearing a lot of this
this morning and I love it because this
is the pinnacle of of where where we
where we stand with God's. Right? So,
faith in Jesus, death produces hope and
justification. Uh, flipping your Bibles
over to the book of Romans
is pretty much where we'll spend the
rest of the time in the book of Romans
here for the most part. Chapter 3, we're
going to look at 21-31.
That is Romans chapter 3
21-31.
Paul writes,
"But now apart from the law, the
righteousness of God has been
manifested, being witnessed by the law
and the prophets, even the righteousness
of God through faith in Jesus Christ for
all those who believe. For there is no
distinction. For all have sinned and
fall short of the glory of God, being
justified as a gift by his grace through
the redemption which is in Christ Jesus.
publicly as a propitiation in his blood
through faith. This was to demonstrate
his righteousness because in the
forbearance of God, he passed over the
sins previously committed. For the
demonstration, I say, of his
righteousness at the present time, so
that he would be just and the justifier
of the one who has faith in Jesus. Where
then is boasting? It is excluded. By
what kind of law? Of works? No, but by a
law of faith. For we maintain that a man
is justified by faith apart from works
of the law. Or is God the God of the
Jews only? Is he not the God of the
Gentiles also? Yes, of the Gentiles
also. Since indeed God who will justify
the circumcised by faith and the
uncircumcised through faith is one. Do
we then nullify the law through faith?
May it never be. On the contrary, we
establish the law.
So, penalty for wrongdoing is a must,
right? We all believe that.
I mean, we might, you know, say one
thing or the other, but we all believe
that penalty for wrongdoing is
essential, right? If the child is being
disobedient, they're punished, right? If
a man or a woman adult, right, breaks
the law, we expect for there to be
punishment,
right? a fine at the very least, jail
time, you know, or even in some places
there's still execution, those sorts of
things, right? Death penalty. But we
believe that when wrong is done,
something needs to happen about it.
And so at times, right, I I feel like we
can we focus on certain attributes of
Jesus or of God. um maybe it's just the
ones that are kind of forefront in our
mind, maybe it's just what's convenient
at the time. Um but especially when
we're talking to others, right? Or or
especially whenever we're trying to um
speak speak to somebody who who doesn't
really go to church and those sorts of
things, uh we always focus on certain
attributes. And one of the big ones,
right, is God is love. God loves you and
he he wants you uh to follow him.
Absolutely. Amen. Right? 100% true and
that is very important and it needs to
be taught. But God is also just,
right? That is who God is.
He is a just God. He can't be unjust.
Because for God to be unjust, he is no
longer God because God is just in the
same way that God can't be unloving.
Because if God was unloving, then he
wouldn't be God. Because God is love.
And so we need to remember this, right?
Because this is the huge part of Jesus
and a huge explanation of Jesus,
right? And so we need to think about
these because uh like we said in Romans
uh verse 23 that we just read, right?
All have sinned and fallen short. So we
just established the fact that we all
think that wrongdoing uh deserves
penalty.
Well, our sin is wrongdoing which is
deserving of penalty.
So where's our hope? Right? God is just
and a just God means that
I've done wrong
and and then I've done wrong again. And
then once I've done wrong again, I I'm
pretty sure that I went and and decided
to do a little bit more wrong throughout
my life.
What hope is there? Right? I mean, think
about what what Chaz was saying. I read
it. What what do I deserve? What what
hope is there for me?
Right?
or like we defined earlier where what
kind of confident expectation right a
pedo can I have that I could receive
justification that I could be justified
when I have sinned and penalty is due me
that's what's deserving
I think we all know the answer here
right Jesus crucifixion
the sacrifice and the death of our
savior that is our hope.
That is where our hope lies in the only
place that our hope lies. So, how then
can the Jesus death provide for this
justification as one man? Well, I'm glad
you asked. Romans chapter 5 and verse uh
14. And then we're going to skip down to
18 and 19.
Romans chapter 5 and verse 14.
And then uh we'll skip down to 1819.
Nevertheless, death reigned from Adam
until Moses, even over those who had not
sinned in the likeness of the offense of
Adam, who is a type of him who was to
come. Uh and 18 So then, as through one
transgression there resulted
condemnation to all men. Even so,
through one act of righteousness, there
resulted justification of life to all
men. For as through the one man's
disobedience, the many were made
sinners, even so through the obedience
of the one, the many will be made
righteous. Right? And I think obviously
the one there is Jesus. So a quick
sidebar here on on these verses. Uh and
going back to being careful about how we
speak, right? This shows these verses
here, right? This shows the importance
of the biblical history of creation,
right? and of Adam because so often
today right and maybe even within you
know the church and all these different
things we like to hear these different
kind of ideas of well maybe Adam wasn't
um a person but rather you know Adam it
means man like Adam was just talking
about the group right or because
off of two people right so surely it
it's talking about the group of people
or there was multiple people that God
created and Adam meaning man was just
right.
This is detrimental to what we preach as
justification through Jesus Christ
alone.
Right?
Sin entered through one man, Adam, the
man, the human being. And by that God in
his infinite wisdom is able to justify
the creation of humanity through one man
and his righteousness, Christ Jesus. It
is important that we believe the
historical accuracy and account of the
Bible and that Adam was the guy.
And when we speak to others, we need to
make sure that hey, like that's that's a
person, right? look out for those things
because uh you know it it goes against
what what Paul is is trying to say here
in in the way of our justification. That
was just a sidebar. That one's free for
you. Um so Jesus took our place on the
cross, right?
That's your penalty for your wrongdoing,
by the way. Right? That's what you
deserve. That's what I deserve is to be
beaten, stripped,
laid on a rugged cross. right? Just I
can't even imagine the splinters
and then nailed to it and hung in shame
for everyone to pass by and see.
But he took that for us.
He did that for us.
And this was done so that God, right?
Because we just mentioned earlier, he
has to be just. It's his nature. It's
who he is. This was done so that now and
again the wisdom of God is just it is
amazing. God is just because that was
the penalty that we deserved but he's
also the justifier.
Right?
So he never went against his nature. He
was just in paying for our sins on the
cross.
But through the act of that one man, in
the same way that sin entered the world
because of Jesus sinless and perfect
life, he can now be the justifier
on top of still being just. And that is
our hope. That's how you and I are
saved.
That's our only hope, right? Without
this fact,
we're lost.
So
in other words, basically this is kind
of what it boils down to, right?
God died on the cross, right? Because
Jesus is God, right? Jesus was man and
God. So God died on the cross.
We read that it was a propitiation,
right? This word is almost like an
appeasement. So he died on the cross to
appease God.
So that way you and I could be saved
from God.
Church, the most the scariest thing out
there isn't hell. The scariest thing out
there isn't Satan. The scariest thing
that you could ever face is the wrath of
God. That's it.
Right? Praise be to God for his wisdom,
for his love, and for his grace. That he
is just and the justifier. And because
of that, we don't have to face his wrath
if we have faith and believe in him.
Because that is the scariest thing out
there. Romans chapter 5 and verse 9,
I'll read it again for you.
Much more than having now been justified
by his blood, we shall be saved from the
wrath of God through him.
That's what we are saved from, church,
the wrath of God.
So, what do you have to say about that?
What can you boast in that? Right? You
don't deserve to be justified any more
than anyone. I don't deserve to be
justified any more than you. Our elders
don't deserve to be justified any more
than anyone else in here. Our deacons
don't deserve to be justified more than
anyone else. Our ministers don't deserve
to be justified more than anyone else.
We as a collective group don't deserve
to be justified any more than anyone
outside of these walls. We don't deserve
it.
We can't deserve it. There is absolutely
nothing that any one of us could have
done. There is no amount of money that
we could have paid. There is no special
thing that we could have said to make
our way into heaven if it wasn't for the
saving work of Christ at the cross to
justify us for our sins. That is it.
And don't be mistaken. Jesus was not
plan B, right? Jesus was never plan B.
God doesn't make mistakes. He didn't see
the sin of man in the beginning, right?
Adam falls and then he's like, "Well,
okay." You know, he was he's a first
guy. So, let's give it a little bit of
time. And then some time goes on and
things just keep unwinding. And he's
like, "You know what? These people need
some order. Let me give them a law. That
that should do it. Plan A." Okay. So, he
gives a law and then pretty shortly
after giving the law, he finds, well,
man, these people can't even live up to
this law. I mean, what can these people
do? I guess plan B now. I guess I'm
going to No.
From the foundation of the world, Jesus
was it. Jesus was the plan. The law was
given so that way our sin would be
highlighted and it would show that we
need a savior,
right?
He was it.
So instead of us boasting what we do,
which isn't anything,
rather it is by faith in the one who
could do something, that is Christ in
his perfect and sinless life, that we
have hope and that we have received the
precious gift of justification by grace.
Our final point this morning, faith in
Jesus resurrection
produces hope in eternal life.
Again, that is faith in Jesus
resurrection
produces hope in eternal life.
If you want to flip over to Romans
chapter 8 and verse 11,
Romans chapter 8 and verse 11.
says, "But if the spirit of him who
raised Jesus from the dead dwells in
you, he who raised Christ Jesus from the
dead will also give life to your mortal
bodies through his spirit who dwells in
you."
Uh 1 Corinthians chapter 15 and we'll
read 20 and 22.
1 Corinthians 15
20-22.
But now Christ has been raised from the
dead, the first fruits of those who are.
For since by a man came death, by a man
also came the resurrection of the dead.
For as in Adam all die, so also in
Christ all will be made alive. Again,
speaking on Adam there. And finally, uh
1 Thessalonians
chapter 4 verse 13 and 14.
1 Thessalonians 4
13 and 14.
And that reads, "But we do not want you
to be uninformed, brethren, about those
who are asleep, so that you will not
grieve as the rest do who have no hope.
For if we believe that Jesus died and
rose again, even so, God will bring with
him those who have fallen asleep in
Jesus."
And there's several others that you can
look up if you would like to about Jesus
resurrection and our eternal life. But
Jesus resurrection is the essential
piece of the plan that I feel like can
sometimes get overlooked, right?
Very often we we focus on the
crucifixion, right? Or the world focuses
on the crucifixion and all eyes on the
cross, right? Everybody has a cross
necklace. Nobody has an empty tomb
necklace. Um,
and so it kind of overshadows sometimes
the resurrection,
right? But that's vital,
right? In the same way that Christ's
death was absolutely necessary, right?
That it was vital for our justification,
his resurrection is equally important
and vital for our eternal life.
So what right did death have
right we all know Romans 6:23 for the
wages of sin is
but the free gift of God is eternal life
in Christ Jesus our Lord right the wages
of sin is death we've mentioned that
we've said that we've all sinned great
but Jesus was sinless
right amen
he was sinless. He was perfect. He was
blameless.
He was the perfect lamb for sacrifice
provided by God.
However, right, he bore our sins. He
took on our sins at the cross for our
justification.
But yet, he himself never sinned.
So where where does death have the right
to hold him? Right?
How can death hold on to the sinless if
the wages of sin is death but you
haven't committed that?
If you haven't committed the crime, how
can the jail hold on to you?
So Christ overcomes the grave, right?
the triune work of God
and his perfect and sinless life.
Through his sacrifice, he bore our sins.
Christ has or death has no right to
reign over him because he was sinless.
Yet in bearing our sins, he put to death
death, right? He overcame it.
So by Christ overcoming the grave, you
and I have hope in that, too.
Right? And that's the importance.
Our savior is not rolled up in a tomb
somewhere. And our savior is not a
stolen body from a tomb that was
guarded. Right? Our savior is a risen
savior who is alive at the right hand of
God right now and forever more.
He is the reason that we have a hope
that we too might raise again one day
and have eternal life. Right? And we are
to be raised in his likeness. Right?
However, you sin. I sin. You're going to
sin. I'm going to sin. We taste death.
Every single one of us in this room has
an expiration date.
But that's not the end, right? Our hope
doesn't end there because of the
resurrection of Jesus Christ.
And so we too, as I mentioned, he is the
first fruits, right? You and I will be
raised. You and I will walk again. We
will see one another. And we will get to
spend eternity in praise and worship
with our savior and at the throne of the
eternal God.
So I want to read uh a couple verses
real quick. Um, in conclusion that I
feel like sum up really well pretty much
the the entirety of this lesson. Um,
first Peter, if you're using your
Bibles, First Peter
chapter 1, and we're going to read
verses 3-9.
Give you a moment to turn there. It's
First Peter chapter 1,
and we'll be reading 3-9.
It reads, "Blessed be the God and Father
of our Lord Jesus Christ, who according
to his great mercy has caused us to be
born again to a living hope through the
resurrection of Jesus Christ from the
dead, to obtain an inheritance which is
imperishable and undefiled and will not
fade away, reserved in heaven for you
who are protected. protected by the
power of God through faith for a
salvation ready to be revealed in the
last time. In this you greatly rejoice,
even though now for a little while, if
necessary, you have been distressed by
various trials, so that the proof of
your faith being more precious than
gold, which is perishable, even though
tested by fire, may be found to result
in praise and glory and honor at the
revelation of Jesus Christ. And though
you have not seen him, you love him. And
though you do not see him now, but
believe in him, you greatly rejoice with
joy inexpressable and full of glory,
obtaining as the outcome of your faith
the salvation of your souls. Amen.
Church, ultimately our hope is rooted in
the word of God.
Our hope is rooted in what God says. Our
hope is rooted in the promises of God.
Hope is not wishful thinking.
Hope is not expecting for God to do
something that God never said he would
do. Right? And this is where we need to
be so careful
because so many and maybe even some here
in our number feel abandoned by God
or feel abandoned by the church, right?
and and they they feel that God God has
just left me to the wolves,
right? And the reason that they feel
this abandonment isn't because it's
true, right? God hasn't abandoned him.
But the reason that they feel this
abandonment is because they have had
hope in something that God never said he
would do.
And then when they place that
expectation onto God that he never said
anything about and it doesn't happen the
way that they thought,
well, where is God?
Right? Our hope is in what God says
because God is faithful to his word,
right? And it's not to say that we
shouldn't pray about the things, right?
It's not to say that we can't uh have
faith that God can do something about
those or that we can't even hope that he
will do something about it.
But whenever that is the ultimate and if
it doesn't happen the way that I said
it's going to happen,
well, you've abandoned me. You're not as
good as you say you are. That's where we
run into an issue, right? I mean, we
just read even through various trials,
God never promised or said that you're
not going to go through trials. Pretty
much the opposite, actually.
God never said that you weren't going to
get sick or that he would heal you of
every single thing that hits you in this
life, right? But we have hope that
you're going to be healed of your sin.
That problem's taken care of. You can
have hope in that.
Everything else though,
maybe, maybe not, right?
Everything that God says in his word,
everything that God promises, we can
have hope in.
So, uh, few examples here, right?
Noah, we all know Noah, right? What a
wonderful ark.
to my knowledge, correct me if I'm
wrong, to my knowledge, he never built
another ark,
right? I don't even know if you've ever
built another boat for that matter. Um,
but that, you know, you kind of think
about it and you're like, why not,
right? For the first time ever in the
history of humanity, you witnessed a
absolutely astronomical amount of water
come from the sky uh to the point where
the entire world flooded. I built this
ark because I was told to. I had animals
on it and stuff. Now the water goes
away. Well, you know, maybe having a
backup just in case if it starts to rain
really bad again would be a good idea.
Again, to my knowledge, he didn't.
But what did he have? He had a promise
and a sign from God that he would never
flood the entire world again.
Why don't you have an ark?
Right? We go out and we see a rainbow
and we see the sign and the promise that
the entire world will never be flooded
again.
Hasn't happened yet.
That can guarantee it's not going to
happen again because God promised it
wouldn't. So, he put his hope in that.
Abraham, right? In Romans, Paul says
that uh Abraham hoped against hope. What
does this mean? What hope is there for a
hund, you know, roughly hundred-year-old
couple to have a baby?
I've never seen it. I've heard about it
in the Bible, but I've never seen a
couple that old having a child.
Yet, he still had hope. Why? Because God
said that it would happen. Right,
Abraham? You're going to have a child.
Well, I have I have an heir. It's
Ishmael. Nope. you and Sarah are going
to have a son. And he believed him and
he hoped in that Moses, right? Moses had
hope that the Israelites could be freed
from Egyptian slavery, not because of
anything that he did, right? He fled for
years because he killed a man, but
because of the word of God coming to him
in a burning bush saying, "You're going
to save my people.
I'm going to use you to save the
Israelites." He had hope, right? and he
went and he did. But that was based on
what God said.
And then of course, as we had just uh
celebrated Mary,
right? Mary had hope.
She had hope that she was going to have
a child despite being a virgin. And why?
Because God said so.
where God speaks,
we can listen with absolute certainty
and with joyous and with confident
expectation because God is faithful.
Right? Paul writes in Romans about the
Jews, right? And and a lot of the
questions that he asks in Romans almost
seem as like they're questions that were
asked to him as he's gone around
teaching. Right? Has God forgotten the
Jews? Right? It's all gentile this,
Gentile that now. I mean, what what
about us? Has he has he abandoned us?
Has he forgotten us? It's like, no. May
it never be. That's the best news that
you and I have is that God did not
forget the ancient Jews. Because if he
had, who's to say that one day he's not
just going to throw us out and move on
to the next group? But God is faithful,
right? What he says, he does.
There are countless other examples of
this hope and and people putting hope in
what God says. Uh for the sake of time,
we're going to end there, right? But
church, our God is a good God. Our God
is a wise God. Our God is a gracious
God. Our God is a just God. And our God
is a loving God. We sit here today
deserving of death, hell, and separation
and the wrath of God for eternity. But
instead, you and I can hope against hope
by faith in him who came to overcome it.
so that we might be freed from sin and
that we can confidently expect to be
able to walk as he did to live a
Christlike life that we are justified by
his blood that we are made clean and
that we too may be raised to live
eternally with our loving savior forever
more. So church, if you're here today
and you have never experienced uh this
type of hope, we can speak more about
it. We can give you uh more ideas as to
what it means, how it can change you. We
can baptize you, raise you in the
likeness of Christ here on earth. Uh and
then allow you to be walking with him
and experience the hope that we have.
Come experience this hope that can only
be found in Jesus. If you need anything
or any prayers, please come as we stand
and as we
