So questions themselves can be uh funny
themselves. I know that u somebody
asked, "Well, what has a heart that
doesn't beat?" Uh it's an artichoke
and I this is just dad stuff. So if you
don't like it, that's okay. In a
bookstore, a man asked the saleswoman
uh where's the self-help section? And
she said, "Well, if I tell you, it kind
of defeats the purpose of the section."
I like questions, but probably the most
interesting story about questions that I
I've read lately was what I'm fixed to
tell you. I thought it was really
intriguing and uh it's from Edward
Dabono. Uh the Oxford Exponent of
Lateral Thinking. The Oxford Exponent of
Lateral Thinking was the name of the
book. And so there was this question
arose. It's apparently a real situation
and trying to resolve that. Uh and his
point in all of this is when we can't
solve a problem using traditional
methods, uh sometimes we need to try
what would be called detours or
reversals. Anything that will give us
kind of a different angle to ponder the
solution from. And uh that may be hard
for us in thinking through the
scriptures because you know we're kind
of u black or white on that. We we tend
to think we can resolve any problem
easily but it's not always that easy.
And this situation the that he mentions
in his book is a situation where this
large company builds a large building
for the company to be in multi-story and
um but after they got it built the
company uh and they moved into what
would be called a skyscraper I suppose
apparently they had not put enough
elevators in the building.
Now that may not sound like a big
problem but uh it was a big problem. The
employees were disgruntled because at
the end of the day, you couldn't get out
of the building in the morning. It was
difficult getting in the building.
Couldn't get all the people. They
standing in line waiting and getting out
of the building. Everybody wants to go
home when it's time to go home if you
know what people feel like at the end of
the day. They all wanted to get home.
And so they got kind of grumpy about the
whole situation. And so what ended up
happening is they got a group of people
together and they asked them, "Well, how
would you solve this problem?" And so
they came up with four solutions. And uh
I thought you'd be interested in what
the four solutions were. Basically, the
solution number one was speed up the
elevators or arrange for them to stop at
certain floors during rush periods. So,
it would be automatic. The second
possibility was to stagger working hours
to reduce the elevators demand at either
the beginning or the end of the day. The
third solution was install mirrors
around entrances to all the elevators.
And the fourth solution was drive a new
elevator shaft through the building.
Well, Professor Edward Deono said, uh,
if you chose the first, second, or
fourth solution, then you are a vertical
or traditional thinker. If you chose the
third possibility, then you're a lateral
thinker.
uh the vertical thinkers think that you
know pretty much way we all think tend
to think but the lateral thinkers have a
broader view of what might be the
solution to it. The company actually
ended up choosing the third solution
which was placing mirrors where all the
elevators were and it worked.
Uh the professor went on, Professor
Edward Dabono said, uh people became so
preoccupied with looking at themselves
or kind of peeking at others that they
no longer notice the wait time for the
elevators. The problem was not so much
the lack of elevators as the impatience
of the employees and you just made them
okay with being a little more patient. I
think that's a brilliant solution and it
didn't cost much. It was just a really
simple thing. And I think sometimes in
our effort to answer biblically,
sometimes we overthink
uh I know that may come as a surprise,
but I think we overthink a lot of
things. So maybe that's what I'm going
to do tonight. Let's look at uh possible
questions and well possible answers to
these questions. First question is, is
Revelation a conclusion or a beginning?
Uh, interesting question. I I think the
A was in there. Is a revelation a
conclusion or a beginning? But I'm not
really sure in the context of the Bible
uh and theology. The book of Revelation
is primarily understood as a conclusion
really the consummation of the ages, the
climax of all the things that God has
told us about. 1 Corinthians 15:24,
 then comes the end when he
delivers up the kingdom to God the
Father, when he puts an end to all rule
and all authority and power. Or 1 Peter
4:7, the end of all things is at hand.
Therefore, be serious and watchful in
your prayers. But it kind of uh
functions also as a beginning because uh
it initiates
uh new and eternal state that's coming.
So there's the the new creation that's
talked about in Revelation 21-22.
There's the consummation of marriage
that's talked about in Revelation 19 and
20 where we're married to Christ. So
those are kind of new things. The it
also functions though as a conclusion in
the sense that it finishes God's plan
for earth. And uh the conclusion is uh
in many fold ways it's a conclusion in
that it's the end of the cannon the
scriptures. We don't have another book
after the book of revelation. It really
is the consummation of the plan that God
had given us through the gospel. It's
also the end of the old. It depicts the
end of uh and the doom if you will for
Satan and his followers and then the
harvest time and the judgment. So, it's
kind of the end as well from that
perspective, but
it is a definitive conclusion to
salvation and the end of the ages and
the final opening of the door to
forever, if you will, and also the end
of Babylon the Great. That's Revelation
14 through18. Whatever that is, whatever
Babylon the Great is. But of course,
it's parallel not so much to Babylon the
real as much it is Babylon from uh
Genesis 11 when the whole world is is
one and united and yet not willing to
yield to the will of God. And that's the
biggest concern about the future that
that might occur. So that that seems to
me I'm not sure that answers your
question. Is revelation a conclusion or
a beginning? It's kind of both. So, u
that may not be a happy answer because
you might wanted one or the other.
Here's the second question. Was the
great flood a miracle? Genesis 678 and
9. Well, yes. Whenever a supernatural
being does anything, it's kind of
miraculous within and of itself. And
yet, no, it's not. Uh, one of the things
that you need to remember is that uh
miracles are not magic. And that's a
really important thing to remember. Uh I
know you you tend to think that they
are, but God is not pulling a trick on
us. So it's not that kind of magic and
it's not so magical that he doesn't know
how he did it. So it's not it's
mysterious to us. Is are there ways that
he could have done it naturally? Well,
yeah. I suppose there are maybe more
than we can imagine. Worldwide uh
historically speaking there are at least
80 uh stories of a worldwide flood. Even
the Indians of America had stories of
flood. Uh the aboriges of Australia have
a stories of the flood. If you go back
to the Semitic tribes and the uh saranss
particularly there's discussions of a
flood. The epic of Gilgamesh is a story
of a flood. is probably the most
parallel to the Bible story of a flood
that you can read about. In that story,
it's kind of interesting. It's uh they
have gods and lil arguing with ya in and
about what they should do about mankind.
The hero is uh nepistam and he is the
parallel to uh Noah. In that story, uh,
very similar. There's a vessel that you
float in, except in his case, it's 120
by 120 by 120 cubits. It's basically a
block and it has six levels in it. The
flood uh is similar and that is that the
flood is u uh six days and six nights
instead of 40 days and 40 nights. It
destroys everything. And the aftermath
is everybody dies pretty much except him
and the uh he has uh different people
that knew how to do skills, the skillful
people. It wasn't just his family in
that story. Now the significance really
is is that uh the man who is displayed
as uh Noah in that story earns eternal
life through it and so he gets to live
forever. Uh, I don't think that's part
of our story, but it is interesting
story. If you ever get a chance to read
it, it's available online if you want to
read it sometime. There's two possible
semi-natural causes. They wouldn't be
natural in the fullest sense of the word
in that it just happened on its own.
Obviously, God is in control of all
things. Romans 8:28. It is possible that
an asteroid could cause such an event.
Uh there's there's other ways it could
have happened. And I'll mention these
about the asteroid and then I'll give
you another possible that's kind of my
personal view of probably what happened.
But uh couldn't prove it to save my
life. Uh there was the impact of a six
to 9 mile wide uh asteroid uh that came
from beyond Jupiter and the Yucatan
Peninsula. Y'all probably seen pictures
of that and the crater that's actually
in the water. Uh there is also the
crater in West Africa which dates
roughly to about the same time as the
Yucatan Peninsula. But then there's uh
the 19mi wide asteroid crater that's uh
actually in a place that we've heard a
lot about lately. It's in Greenland and
it was only recently discovered and uh
it's under 3,000 ft of ice. So it's a
while back. So, a asteroid would be, I
guess you would say, a semi- miraculous
or a normal occurrence. Could be the way
that God did it. There's another
possibility, just for those of you who
like to study such things as this. I
mean, you've probably all heard of a I
don't know if you've heard of this
recently. They've just found a storage
of water under the ground uh that's
actually larger than the amount of water
that's in all of our oceans. It's in one
location. It's a recent discovery. Uh
it's it's actually amazing. You wouldn't
think that you could hide that much
water in one place, but apparently
there's a big ball of water down there
somewhere. U so but one of the possible
ways is uh the earth could actually be
instead of uh the continents moving.
This is my theory. I don't think the
continents moved. I don't even believe
that theory at all. I believe that they
that the earth burps. Uh we'll talk
about that another time, but basically
the that the earth burps. that the earth
burps. It's It's simple. It can expand
and contract and then it's easy just to
uh cover the water. All right. Uh cover
the land. All right. Here's the final
question. I guess you'd say uh well in
Well, it's not the final question. Final
part of this is that asteroids, is that
a miracle? I Yeah, 
if it comes at the right place at the
right time, I I guess you could say
everything that God does is a miracle.
Is it a miracle in the sense that
couldn't be explained? Well, none of us
know the explanation. So, I guess that
is a miracle because none of us can
explain what happened. Anything we'd say
would be a guess how he actually did it.
We know that the fountains of the great
deep were broken up and that's about and
water it came down for 40 days and 40
nights. The water prevailed, just in
case you've never studied this subject,
it's kind of actually interesting. The
water actually prevailed on the earth
for a year. So, if you've read your
text, you need to read it a little
closer. It wasn't just a month or two.
Uh it was for a year and which coincides
by the way with a uh Halloween and uh
the the death uh uh remembrances in
several tribes around the world as if
they were mourning the dead at that time
of the year. Okay. Number three, third
and final question. Maybe get done early
tonight. Sounds good to me. What is the
because we're going to eat, right? Okay.
So, that might be a good thing. What's
the best way to explain to someone from
another church why the church of Christ
doesn't practice infant baptism? I do
not know what the best way is. How would
I know? I mean, I have to be inspired.
I'm going to give you a couple of things
you could say and uh that would help you
maybe. Uh one is uh an infant is used as
an example of what we should be like in
the kingdom. And that's Matthew 18:es 3
and 4. It would really be inappropriate,
it seems, for the Lord Jesus to use a
child, a little child, as the example of
what we should be like to go to heaven
and then say little children don't go to
heaven. That wouldn't make any sense to
me. But you know what? I know. There's
no biblical authority though requiring a
child to engage in uh infant baptism.
There is neither a command. You can't
find that anywhere in the scriptures.
There is no example. The closest thing
to an example that we get is and their
household. The problem with that is is
that that doesn't prove anything. What
proves too much proves nothing at all.
So there's no example of a child ever
being baptized. And there's no necessary
inference from what I just gave you. In
their household, there is an inference
that everybody in the house was
baptized. There is no necessary
inference that that included children,
little bitty children. There are
specific acts though that an infant
cannot engage in which are required for
you to be baptized appropriately. An
infant cannot believe, not truly
believe. Uh it I know children 7 years
old, 8, nine, even 10 are sometimes
baptized. But quite honestly that, you
know, it's pushing it's pushing the
envelope for a seven, six, seven year
old to be baptized because the question
is is do they believe or do they just
believe their mom and dad? They believe
or do they just believe their mom and
dad? And that is a problem. But of
course, one younger than that, which is
what we're really talking about, uh
would not probably be considered to
truly believe the way you believe as an
adult or even as a teenager. An infant
cannot truly repent. The we're required
to repent before we're baptized. It is
exactly what baptism is about. What are
they repenting of? What do they know
about? What do they understand about
repentance? What do they understand
about sin? It's a difficult thing. It's
not to say that they don't do wrong.
Everybody does wrong. Even I've heard
little kids fake that they were getting
eaten by a bear and we all go in there
and they just want you to go pick them
up. But that doesn't mean that they're a
sinner in the normal sense of the word.
And an infant cannot truly confess their
faith in Jesus Christ, especially an
infant who cannot even speak. Romans
10:9 and 10 requires that confession is
made unto salvation. And an infant can't
have a bad conscience. And if 1 Peter
3:21 is correct, now I believe it's true
that baptism only saves because it's an
answer of a good conscience toward God
through the resurrection of Jesus
Christ. And so literally uh they didn't
have a bad conscience. Uh how how in the
world are they going to have a good
conscience if they don't feel guilty
about sin? What are they getting
rectified? And then an infant cannot die
to themselves. They don't even
understand the concept. They barely
understand the concept of death. uh
Romans 636 clearly indicates that we die
to the old way we live and arise to walk
in newness of life. So that's kind of
out. And then an infant cannot be
faithful in good works. Uh like we're
told that we must be faithful till
death. The idea of uh faithfulness to
death would only scare a child uh even
worse and it wouldn't even help them
along that path. So those are probably
not the best. There's probably something
out there that is the best. I have no
idea what the best answer is, but those
are some you can use kind of in general.
Okay. Uh that's about it. Wow, we're
going to be done early. Praise the Lord.
So, some folks um I need to talk about
this. I think some folks uh cannot take
a question.
And what I mean by that is is sometimes
in our fellowship, uh, we don't handle
other people not understanding things
very well. Um, in fact, it's almost an
anathema if you don't understand things
the way I understand things. And it can
actually be a problem to our fellowship
if we're not careful. Uh, some folks
can't take an answer that they don't
like. And and that's that's kind of
scary. They have to like it. It has to
be all or nothing. And if they don't
like the way you think about your
answer, they think you're in trouble
automatically, that you're maybe lost
even because you've given an answer they
don't feel comfortable about. And it's
not really their place to decide that,
but they'll feel that way. They decide
it. According to the Bureau of Standards
in Washington, a dense fog covering
seven city blocks to a depth of 100 ft
is composed of less than one glass of
water. Isn't that kind of neat? One
glass of water creates, if you want to
know how many little droplets, it
creates 60 billion droplets to do that
kind of fog. And it's so intense, you
can't see through it. I mean, you can
make it in in that small of an area with
a glass of water, a fog so intense you
cannot see through it.
I think that's interesting to me for
this reason. I think sometimes we get
all twisted up in a question.
If you get all twisted up in a question,
and I I don't have any problem with you
having a question. I mean, I'm trying to
answer questions, but you get you all
twisted up in a question.
It can be a sleepless experience for you
and you think that it is critical that
you fundamentally fully understand it,
but that might not be possible. And now
what? And now you can't see anything. I
I will tell you from personal
experience.
This is a little personal experience. I
spent years I have spent years on
certain topics. Years. I mean literally
years on a single topic that I didn't
tell anybody else even studying. I've
got stacks of notes that I make nearly
as high as I am.
I get kind of I'm the guy that I'm
talking about here. Okay. that gets so
what would be the word down a rabbit
hole.
If you know me, you know that's true.
That I will go down the rabbit hole and
I will go deeper than I should.
So, if you're like me, what I'm trying
to suggest to you is maybe you need to
ease up a little bit. And it's okay if
you can't see the answer for everything.
That's okay. And uh Chuck Swindoll said,
"Every problem is an opportunity to
prove God's power." Every day we
encounter countless golden opportunities
brilliantly disguised as insurmountable
problems.
You got to give God room.
You just have to give God room to be
God. I'm not God.
You're not God. If you don't understand
something, it's okay.
Okay? And it's okay if somebody that's
in a Bible class with you doesn't
understand it fully.
And it's okay if they don't understand
it your way.
It's okay.
Amen.
Amen. walls.
We really need to go there. And I know
I've been Church of Christ a long time,
and I don't mean that in a bad way, a
long, long time ago. And I know that's
not been necessarily historically the
way we tend to deal with stuff. We tend
to drill down and you got to say it
right. You got to understand it right.
You got to be right on target. And if
you're not, I'm not sure you're a
Christian cuz I know I'm right on it.
That's dangerous to a fellowship.
And it's great to be right,
but sometimes after you've thought about
something really, really hard, you don't
know the answer.
So don't allow hard questions or hard
answers to prevent you from finding and
obeying the truth. If you're here
tonight, let's keep it simple. If you
really want to be saved, it's really not
that complicated. Jesus Christ died for
your sins according to the scriptures.
He was buried and he rose again on the
third day according to the scriptures.
If you would believe that truth,
then you can confess that truth, change
your heart tonight, and we will baptize
you in the name of Jesus Christ for the
remission of your sins, and God's Holy
Spirit will come to be within you.
That's how simple the gospel is.
Don't make it too complicated.
So if you need to come, come while we
stand and while we sing.
