This morning we're going to look at the
idea of
kingdom command. Uh this evening we'll
look at kingdom citizens and I pray that
you'll you know join us from that. But
if you have your outlines you can see
that there is quite a bit to cover this
morning. And uh before we begin if
you'll pray with me.
Most gracious and holy father, we come
to you now and and father, we just pray
that that our worship this morning has
been acceptable to you, Father. That uh
our worship and our praise has glorified
you and and has honored you. We thank
you for uh this group of believers who
have gathered together. And father I ask
that uh as I am preaching your word that
uh your holy spirit will will use me as
a vessel to communicate your work to
communicate your truth and father to
communicate your word. And then I pray
that the Holy Spirit will not only open
the hearts and the minds of of those
here in in attendance, Father, but will
uh enter into their lives and help them
not only to to hear the word uh that is
preached today, Father, but to to live
it out, Father, to be true disciples of
your son. Father, we love you so much.
We're so grateful for everything that
you've done for us. And it's in Jesus
name we pray. Amen.
Everybody wants a savior.
I'd argue that most people want a
friend,
but very, very few people want a king in
their lives because a king has
authority. And if we're if we're honest
with ourselves, we struggle with
authority. I don't know about you guys,
but I struggle with being told what to
do.
I I struggle with surrendering my
control. I struggle with letting
somebody else call the shots. And if you
don't believe that, ask my wife or ask
my boss and they'll tell you uh that
that is true. I want help. I want
guidance. Uh but I don't want to have to
uh submit
to authority. And and the reality is
from the very beginning, God intended
for his people to have a king. If you go
all the way back to Genesis in chapter
17, God promises that kings will come
from Abraham and from Sarah. In
Deuteronomy 17, right after putting
together uh the judges and and kind of
instituting uh the judge, he anticipates
the people's desire for a king and he
provi provides instruction on who it
should be. It should be somebody that he
chooses and it should be somebody that
is shaped and devoted to the word of
God. And then if you go into 1st Samuel
chapter 8, you're going to see that the
people finally demand a king. They want
a king to be like all of the other
nations. 1st Samuel 8:5, they want a
king who will fight for them. And it's
really interesting because if you go
back and you read 1st Samuel 4-7,
their request here in 1st Samuel 8 makes
no sense at all because God has proven
that he has fought for them and has
brought the victory. You see, the the
Israelites, they didn't reject the idea
of a king. The Bible says in 1 uh 1st
Samuel chapter 8 that they rejected God
as their king. And if we're honest,
church, I I think we struggle with this
today. I struggle with this today. I I
love We love Jesus as Messiah. We love
Jesus as savior. We love Jesus as
mediator, as helper, and as friend. And
what I'm asking you today and I've been
asking myself, do we do I love Jesus as
master?
Do I love Jesus as Lord? Most of us
would say absolutely, amen, praise God,
hallelujah, Jesus Christ is Lord.
But does our obedience
prove it?
Or do our lives question his authority?
And this has always been the issue. Uh
we see in our text this morning from
Markap 11 that the the the chief
priests, the scribes and the Pharisees
asked Jesus by what authority are you
doing these things and who gave you this
authority?
And those questions have not gone away.
Uh his authority was questioned then and
his authority is questioned even today.
If you go through the New Testament over
700 times, Jesus is referred to as Lord.
The Greek word curios, and I probably
butchered that, but curios, Lord,
speaking of power, speaking of
ownership, and we're going to talk a
little bit about that tonight, uh,
speaking of the unquestionable right to
command. If you go to Genesis 49 in
verse 10, the Bible says that the
scepter shall not depart from Judah
until Shiloh comes and to him will be
the obedience of the people. Shiloh,
excuse me, scepter meaning royal power.
Shiloh often translated as savior, but
it's this idea of or messiah, but it's
this idea of rule. And Shiloh means to
he whom it belongs. To he whose right it
is. Yes, church. Jesus is the saving
Messiah. Amen. Amen, Ruth.
That's for Mason. Ignore me. Jesus is
the saving Messiah, but he is also the
sovereign master.
And and if you do not get anything else
from this series uh that I'm going to
do, I need you to get this here today
right now. A and if this is the only
thing you take away, I'm okay with that.
I've done my job. Jesus Christ is king.
Jesus Christ is master. Jesus Christ is
Lord. He not only has command, he is in
command. He is in command. You're going
to see today of the kingdom of God. He
is in command of his church and his
bride. And if you claim like I claim to
be a follower or an apprentice of Jesus,
that means he has authority and command
over your life. But the question has not
gone away.
what gives him this right and by what
authority
uh is he is he doing it. And so this
morning I want to quickly go through an
attempt in my feeble uh attempt to to
answer that question this morning. Uh
number one uh kingdom command is
established by the word of God. If we're
going to talk about the authority of
Jesus, we have to start with the
authority of the word of God. Psalm 19
and verse 7 says that his word, his law
is perfect. And Jesus in John 17 says uh
that that his word is truth. So when God
speaks, it is not just an opinion. When
God speaks, it is not just a suggestion.
No, when he speaks, truth is established
and authority is settled. And the word
of God tells us exactly who uh the king
is. We see uh point A here that his
authority is prophesied through the
scriptures. I've already given you
Genesis 49 uh where it prophesies that
the ruler will come from the tribe of
Judah. But in 2 Samuel 7, God is
establishing a covenant with David. In
verse 12, 2 Samuel 7:12, he says, "I
will set up your seed after you, and I
will establish his kingdom. He shall
build a house for my name, and I will
establish the throne of his kingdom
forever." Verse 14, I will be his
father, and he shall be my son. Verse 16
to David. Your house and your kingdom
shall be established forever before you.
Your throne shall be established
forever. And yes, we know this in part
was fulfilled by Solomon.
But ultimately this was pointing to King
Jesus.
In Luke 1 uh 31-33, the angel Gabriel
comes to the uh virgin mother Mary and
he says, "You will bring forth a son and
shall call his name Jesus. And the Lord
God will give him the throne of his
father David." Verse 33, "And he will
reign over the house of Jacob forever,
and his kingdom shall have no end." And
so his authority is prophesied through
the scriptures. And what the scriptures
promise, God reveals in the person of
Jesus.
His authority is revealed through the
incarnation. John chapter 1 tells us in
verse one that in the beginning was the
word and the word was with God and the
word was God. If you jump down to verse
14 of John chapter 1, it says uh and the
word became flesh and dwelt among us,
beholding the glory of the father, full
of grace and truth. You see, Jesus is
not just the son of God. Jesus is God
the son. He is God in the flesh. The
Bible tells us that he is the image of
the invisible God. He is the exact
imprint of his nature that he is Christ
over all. Romans chapter nine, the
eternally blessed God.
Paul says in Colossians chapter 2, he is
the head of all principality and power
and in him the fullness of the Godhead
dwells. You see, Jesus is not just a
represent a representative of God. He He
possesses the totality of God's divine
attributes.
He possesses God's holiness. He
possesses God's justice. He possesses
God's truth. He possesses his mercy. And
yes, he possesses even God's power. All
of it made visible through the flesh of
Jesus. And since he is the word of God
in flesh as the word, he displays uh his
authority through creation. If you're
still in John 1:3 says that all things
were made through him and without him
nothing uh that was made was made.
Verse 10, the world was made through
him. Jesus is the active agent or the
active force through which the universe
was created. The Hebrew writer tells us
in in in chapter 1 that it is through
Jesus that God made the worlds not only
made the worlds but it is through Jesus
that he actively upholds the word uh the
world by the word of his power.
Paul agrees in Colossians 1. He says,
"It was by Jesus that all things were
created in heaven and on earth, visible
and invisible, thrones, dominions,
principalities or powers, all things
were created through him and for him."
And so, yes, his command is established
by the word of God. It is prophesied
through the scriptures. It is revealed
through the incarnation. And it is
displayed through the creation. Second
point this morning that kingdom command
is exhibited by the life of Jesus. What
was established of Jesus in the perfect
and true word of God was actually seen
in he was not just declared into in the
scriptures. He actually took on flesh
stepped into this world as a man and he
put this authority on display. His
authority is demonstrated by his
teaching. Much of the gospels uh record
Jesus's teaching and his instruction. In
Mark 1, Jesus enters the synagogue in
Capernaum and he teaches on the Sabbath.
In Mark 1 22 says that the people were
astonished
at his teaching. Why do you think that
is? They were astonished at his
teaching. Bible says because he taught
as one having authority.
You see, Jesus didn't just teach like
the scribes. Uh they taught off of the
opinions of others. When the scribes and
the Pharisees when they would teach,
they they they would quote other rabbis,
they would quote other scribes, and they
would take no authority of their own.
everything was the authority of the
rabbi or the scribe that they were
quoting. But we see throughout uh
especially the sermon on the mount that
Jesus does not do that. In fact, in the
sermon on the mount when he was
teaching, he contradicts what they're
teaching. And he says, "You have heard
opinion,
but I say to you, not the rabbi, not the
scribe, not the Pharisee, I, Jesus, the
living word of God, am telling you what
this actually means."
And if you read through Matthew 5:6 and
7, you get to the very end and it and it
says that when he was finished teaching
again, the people, they were astonished
because he taught as having authority.
But it wasn't just his teaching uh that
demonstrated his authority. His
authority was actually proven by
forgiveness.
In Luke 7, uh, sorry, Luke chapter 5,
a a group of men bring a paralyzed man
to Jesus. And before healing the man,
uh, Jesus forgives him of his sins. And,
and if you read this account in Luke
chapter 5, it says that the scribes and
the Pharisees, they thought, "Oh, what
blasphemy
of Jesus to forgive sins because no one
has authority to forgive sins except for
who?
God.
But this is the son of man. This is the
son of God who descends from heaven from
his throne of judgment with the
authority to forgive sins. And and Jesus
can sense if you're in Luke 5 and and
verse 22, Jesus can sense that the that
that they're questioning him. And he
says, "Why are you reasoning in your
hearts?"
And so Jesus proves it to him. And in
verse 22- 25, we see that his authority
is confirmed by his power. He asks them
in verse 22, he says, he says, "What is
easier to forgive sin or to heal this
man?"
And in verse 24, he says, "But so that
you may know that the Son of Man has
power on earth to forgive sins," he says
to the man who is paralyzed, "Arise,
take up your bed, and go home." And
immediately this man got up.
Immediately he got up. He was healed. He
went on his way through the power of
Jesus. And it says that the people were
amazed that they glorified God and that
they were filled with fear.
And over and over again through the
scriptures, we see Jesus's uh uh
authority with his power over nature,
calming storms, walking on water. We see
his power and his authority over
sickness and disease. He he heals the
leper in Matthew 8. He he heals the
woman uh with with the chronic bleeding
in Luke 8. And and I want to touch on
this. The Bible says uh that this woman
with the chronic bleeding had spent all
her livelihood
on doctors who could not help her.
And the Bible says that with just one
touch of his garment,
she immediately was healed.
We see that Jesus has power over uh
demons and and spiritual uh spiritual
world. read through Luke 7 and Luke 8 if
you really want to see all the amazing
things that Jesus has done. But in Luke
chapter 8, he casts out a legion of
demons into into the swine. And then not
only all of these things, Jesus has
power over death. He raises Lazarus
after 4 days. He raises Gyrus's daughter
and he raises the widow's son. And so
Jesus exhibits his command. It is
demonstrated through his teaching. It is
proven by his forgiveness and it is
confirmed by his power and number last.
Kingdom command is ensured by the reign
of the king. Jesus Christ was king then
just like the old testament uh
scriptures prophesy. Jesus Christ is
king now. He is king today. He will be
king tomorrow. He will be king forever
until the end of time. Jesus Christ is
king. His authority though is validated
by his resurrection. If you read through
uh Romans chapter 1 at the very
beginning, Paul says that it is Jesus's
resurrection from the dead that declares
him to be the son of God. just as he
himself claimed to be.
1 Corinthians chapter 15, and I love
this, uh, but 1 Corinthians chapter 15,
it's talking about the resurrection of
Jesus. And Paul says that if if Christ
is not risen,
our preaching is empty. If Christ is not
risen today, I have no business being
here
&gt;&gt; because my words mean nothing.
He says that if Christ is not risen, our
faith is empty and futile and that we
are still in our sins. And so Jesus's
resurrection proves that everything that
he taught, everything he prophesied
about himself is true. His claims of
divinity are true,
but he isn't just risen. He has been
risen and he's actually been exalted and
enthroned. So, his authority is exalted
by his ascension. Paul in Ephesians 1
says that God raised Jesus from the dead
and seated him at his right hand.
And I love the Hebrew writer expands on
this in in chapters nine and and
chapters 10. Uh but he he expands on
this and he compares Jesus to the high
priest of of the time. And he says he
says that the high priests stand
ministering daily offering sacrifices
that cannot take away sin.
And he makes it very clear throughout
the book of Hebrews that Jesus having
made one sacrifice for sins forever has
sat down
at the right hand of the father. He has
entered heaven itself
to appear. Hebrews 9 24 says to appear
in the presence of God for you.
To appear in the presence of God for me.
I I this is such a powerful and
comforting thing that right now, right
this minute, regardless of anything you
have going on in your life, your Lord,
your Savior, your King is seated at the
right hand of the Father. And the Bible
tells us is that he is interceding
on our behalf.
He's not up there just for him.
He has been exalted in glory to the
right hand of the father for you and for
me. Hebrews 7:2 says that he lives to
make intercession
for us. And so through his ascension, he
has been exalted to the right hand of
God. And it is from that position that
he reigns today as Lord.
Last point, his authority is experienced
by his lordship. The truth is, and this
is what we really need to get here, the
truth is if if if Jesus is not Lord of
all in your life, he is not Lord of all
or excuse me, he is not Lord at all in
your life. If Jesus is not Lord of all
in my life, he is not Lord at all in my
life. If you have found salvation in his
name, the only name that it can be
found, you are called, I am called, we
are called to deny ourselves daily,
submitting ourselves to him, putting off
the flesh and living out his
commandments.
Paul tells us in in in Philippians
chapter 2 again that God has exalted
Jesus but that he has given Jesus a name
that is above all names.
And it is at that name,
the beautiful, powerful, precious name
of Jesus, that name
that everyone
will bow.
Every tongue will confess that Jesus
Christ is the Lord. Not just savior.
He's a wonderful and a beautiful savior.
Jesus Christ is Lord. And so we have the
chance today and we have the chance
every day to confess that he is Lord, to
lay down our lives, to pick up our
cross, and to follow him as we've been
called to do. Uh surrendering every
aspect of our lives. Uh one of the books
that I was studying was was going back
and forth on the idea of commitment,
committing yourself to Jesus and
surrendering surrendering yourself to
Jesus. And what it called out is that we
say, "Hey, I've committed myself to
Jesus." Commitment. I'm still in
control. I can take that away. I've
committed to you. I I can pull that
back. No, we surrender to Jesus. We give
him complete control over our lives. And
that means our thoughts. We give him
control over our speech. We give him
control over our relationships. And and
yes, church, that means we give him
control even of our possessions.
And what I've really been trying to do,
and I want to encourage you to do as
well, is to stop treating Jesus like a
consultant.
Stop just going to the word when I need
a little bit of advice on how to move
forward.
when I've got a a difficult decision to
make a and and that's the only time I
pick up the word of God. No, quit
treating him as a consultant and and
start treating him like the master that
he is.
Experience his lordship in every part of
your life. And when you do that, when
you experience his lordship, you're
going to see all of the blessings that
the Bible tells us that we're going to
see. This isn't a prosperity gospel. I'm
not telling you you're going to be rich.
But what I'm telling you is that when
you experience Jesus's lordship, you are
going to experience his love.
When you experience his lordship, you
are going to experience his mercy. And
when you experience his lordship, you
are going to experience his grace.
The kingdom of God has a king.
The kingdom of God has command. The
world may look crazy out there,
but the world has a king.
And and this is where we're going to
finish here uh today.
The most amazing thing about the
authority and the command of Jesus in my
eyes is that if you truly believe what
the Bible says about him, if you truly
believe about his his command and his
authority, not just over uh the church,
but over you, over the world. If you
truly believe that Jesus in all of his
command and all of his authority,
he says himself, he did not come to be
served,
but he came to serve.
All of this command, all of this
authority,
and he submits himself to the will of
the father.
He willingly takes on uh excuse me,
willingly lays down his life. He takes
on the shame of the cross.
And he does that with all of his command
and with all of his authority. He does
that for you and he does that for me.
And I watch uh I watch a lot of sermons
throughout the week and and one of my
favorite parts because I don't feel like
I do very good at this. One of my
favorite parts is listening to uh the
invitations at the end of of the
sermons. And what I found as I as I
watch through these, a lot of the times
the invitation sounds like, "Hey, if you
will make Jesus Lord of your life, you
can come and be baptized today for the
forgiveness of sin." And I'm going to
say that again, and I want you to listen
to where I think we've messed up or
they've messed up or or we're just
missing something here. If you will make
Jesus Lord of your life,
if you will make Jesus Lord of your
life, church, we don't make Jesus
anything.
We don't make him anything. The Bible
says that God has made him
But his command is established by the
word of God. His command is exhibited by
his life and it is ensured by his reign.
We don't make him anything but we can
acknowledge him in his rightful place.
We can surrender to him in his rightful
place as lord of our lives, as king of
our lives, as master of our lives.
And when we do that, we not only give
our life to him, we give our life to his
church. and we give our life to his
mission
of seeking and saving the lost.
And so the the invitation is there for
you today. If you have not surrendered
your life to the king, if you have not
repented of your sins, put him on in
baptism for the remission of those sins,
we can help you today. Take a few
minutes to get the the horser filled up,
but we can help you today. you can be
baptized and you too can become a
citizen of the kingdom of God. If we can
help you in any way, please come.
