Our
thinking that we don't say aloud is one
of us is right and one of us is wrong.
But can you hear me on what the truth
is?
Neither of us is right.
He's right. His word is right. And ours
is to understand what he's given us.
And that's how he makes us right is when
we're totally dependent on him.
The Bible word for that is faith.
And even though that seems really really
elementary, we don't think that way.
Most of us anyway. You may. I don't. I
have to make myself think that way. I
have to make myself think that if I'm
going to ask you to study with me that
it's not I'm going to teach you what I
know that's right. and you're going to
be a recipient to learn it. That's how
my brain works. I know things. You need
to know those things. I'm going to teach
you the things that I know so you can
know what I know and be right.
Can you see how wrong-headed that is?
And by the way,
would you want somebody coming at you
that way?
I don't.
It's really disarming and it's really
freeing to realize in practical ways
that the power of God to salvation
is the gospel.
That the power is in the word. It's not
in me. It's not in you. And our trying
to package it just so so it'll be more
palatable actually does not help it. It
gets in the way.
When there are difficult passages of
scripture,
the Bible's beginning, the the gospel's
entire starting point is that we are
lost. Do you understand that?
And you and I have to reckon with that
before the gospel can save us. Isn't
that true for anybody else?
Which means it's going to be offensive
to our sensitivities. it's going to be.
And if we try to make that more
palatable, if we try to dumb that down
in any way, then it's no longer the
gospel
because the gospel is about Jesus as
savior, not Jesus helping you save
yourself.
Then
gospel and the Bible's got plenty to say
about that. So, our study is the study
of the book of Acts. Most of you
probably have studied uh the book of
Acts many times over. But please
remember from our discussion last week,
the reason that we are here at all this
morning is because of what happened in
Acts. It is a heritage that goes back
not 2,000 years. Our heritage goes back
before the foundation of the world.
Ephesians 1 and verse4. The book of Acts
is to help us see what we should be. The
way that Acts was understood by its
first recipients was this is the first
look through the open door
if you want to know. And so let's put it
in the call it the the mid to late60s
when it's pinned.
If that's when it's pinned and those
people received it, right, they are some
20 to 30 years removed from the actual
events of the book of Acts. And so it is
a reminder that if you want to know when
they were reading it, if you want to
know what the church should be like
today, some 20 to 30 years after Jesus,
then read this book. This book is a
first look at what that early church
looked like, how it came to be,
how they behaved, how the gospel was
spread, how that boundaries were drawn,
and by whom. And it wasn't by men, it
was by the spirit of God. That's
important to see.
And so for us way downstream, the
message is the same.
If you want to know what the church
should be like today, what was the
church like then?
If you want to know what evangelism
should look like today, how did they do
it?
I don't read in here any classes about
how to go be better at evangelism. I'm
not trying to knock that. I'm just
trying to say they didn't need it. What
they needed was to be convicted and to
have the gospel and that was enough to
go.
Acts is about God's eternal purpose. The
church, the bride of Christ, the body of
Christ. I want to keep connecting those
thoughts. The church is the bride of
Christ is the body of Christ. It seems
really, really elementary, but that's
important to get. When we get to Acts
chapter 9, Saul's going to recount his
conversion. And one of the things that
he's going to do is he's going to say
that he was knocked to his knees by a
blinding light.
And there's going to be a conversation.
Saul,
Saul. And he responded, "Who are you,
Lord? I'm Jesus of Nazareth, whom you're
persecuting." Now, pause the tape for a
second. There is no evidence anywhere
that Saul of Tarsus and Jesus of
Nazareth had ever met.
But in that moment, he was telling him,
"I am Jesus of Nazareth whom you are
persecuting."
Well, who was Saul actually persecuting?
Christians,
the church,
the bride of Christ, the body of Christ.
And so a lesson we're going to uh you're
going to hear this again. Saul learned
that day was how he was treating the
church was how he was treating Christ.
Every blow he dealt against the church
was a blow felt by Christ. Make the
connection, would you? The way you and I
treat the church is how we treat Christ.
how we mistreat to put a sharper point
on it the church is how we mistreat
Christ
we don't get a pass somehow to be good
with Jesus and at odds with his people
that's not how that works the reason
that this is so important is so that we
remember not just he came even though I
don't deserve it he came even though you
don't deserve it
and that fellowship is He saved me when
I didn't deserve it. And you're
reflecting on he saved me even though I
didn't deserve it. And that reminder as
we look around and we discern the body.
There's some language 1 Corinthians 11
is none of us deserves to be here.
And when you know that you don't deserve
to be here, what you're looking for is
you're looking for a little grace. Is
that right?
And maybe we ought to be so moved to
extend a little grace as well. So the
church, the bride of Christ, the body of
Christ, you talk nasty to my wife, I'm
going to get riled up about it.
Can you make the connection?
But God's eternal purpose, what we find
is that the church is actually the
inbreaking into time into the present of
God's everlasting kingdom.
When you think of eternity,
and I don't want to get too
mathematical, but you remember in math
when you learned about lines
and rays
and segments. Do you remember this? I
know some of you are having PTSD that I
just brought it up. Most of us think
about eternity though as a ray, don't
we?
That there's now and there will be
eternity. But I've got this point in
time now that began when I was born. I
don't care about all of when y'all were
born. It's it began time began when I
was born and it's going to continue on
forever. Y'all with me on this? Even
though we know better, that's sort of
how we envision it. But eternity goes,
time somehow is this capsulated
encapsulated thing in the midst of
eternity that goes
mind-blowing, isn't it?
And so when we think about God's
everlasting kingdom, it's not something
that's ahead of us.
It's something that has always been.
And so the inbreaking of God's
everlasting kingdom into the presence in
the form of the church, that's important
to see because it's not about they built
a church, they made a church, they did.
God built this here in time that already
is. And so thy will be done on earth as
it is in heaven. Does this start to come
together for you?
God's kingdom reign is.
The question is, do we walk in it or
not?
There comes Jesus.
So that he allows me and you to be part
of it at all when I know as a sinner I'm
worthy of death. Romans 6:23 is
unimaginable. That's the language used
in 1 Corinthians 2:9. I has not seen nor
ear heard nor have entered into the
heart of man. That means you can't
imagine it. It is unimaginable
the things that God has prepared for
those who love him. And that should
inspire each of us to greater
faithfulness.
So if you think you're a pretty faithful
Christian, let acts get under your skin.
It will drive you to be more faithful.
If you don't feel like you're doing so
well in the faithfulness department, let
it get in your lap and convict you. It
will push you toward greater
faithfulness because this is God's
eternal purpose in Jesus. His eternal
will accomplished through him. All
right, that's my review. Acts chapter 1
beginning in verse number 1 through 11
is what we to we looked at last week.
So, a bit of reminder verses 2 and
three, Jesus presented himself alive,
resurrected from the dead to his
apostles.
He then spent some time with his
apostles. 40 days. Uh this 40 days thing
is going to come up later. Just make a
mental note right now. He spent 40 days
with his apostles speaking of the things
pertaining to the kingdom. That's
important. What did they talk about
while he was here for 40 days? Kingdom
things.
For 40 days. 40 days. They talked about
kingdom things. Then he was taken up.
Verse 9, ascended back to the father's
right hand to glory. And in leaving, he
left instructions. Back up to verse
four. Don't go anywhere. Stay in
Jerusalem and wait.
Now, pause for a second. In Acts chapter
2, you can cheat. It's open book. Acts
chapter 2 verse one. When the day of
Some of you are bashful. What day?
Pentecost. when the day of Pentecost
came. Now, do you know what penta means?
You know what a pentagon is?
Some of you are looking at me with your
the math again. Pentagon means
five-sided object, right? That's a
pentagon. So, Pentecost
was the 50th day
after what? Well, for now, let's just
deal with it was 50 days, right? After
Passover. 50 days. So Jesus spent how
many days with his disciples after he
was resurrected? 40. So he told them to
wait.
And when the day of Pentecost was fully
come, they were all together on one
place. How long did they have to wait?
10 days.
Now maybe you've put that together
before, maybe you haven't. But waiting
on the Lord, for most of us, I'm willing
to wait on the Lord as long as it's in
the next 30 minutes.
Okay. Not in the next. Okay. Maybe the
next hour.
Okay, fine. I'll give you till tomorrow.
Am I right? We live in a microwave world
and we want our results and we want them
right now. Am I the only one? Okay,
there's three of us. But that's the way
we think. And yet they waited for how
long? It was 10 days. And while they
were waiting, what were they doing? Just
sitting around twiddling their thumbs?
They're waiting on the Lord. That's
important to get. We'll come back to
that. So he said, 'W wait. What are they
waiting for? Again, verse number four,
Acts chapter 1. They're waiting for the
promise of the father to be fulfilled.
What promise exactly is that? Keep
reading. Look at verse 5. To be
baptized.
I'm going to suggest to you water
baptism is coming.
But when he tells them to wait,
it's not that specifically that he's got
in mind. I don't think I think he's
using that word, the idea of being
immersed better probably in this context
is that they would be overwhelmed with
God's Holy Spirit and the power that
would accompany that. Why? Verse eight,
so that they could be his witnesses. so
they could carry the gospel of the
kingdom from where they were in
Jerusalem to the entire world. And Acts
chapter 1 verse number 8 becomes
something of a theme verse for the text.
I'm going to talk more about that in a
moment, but please don't miss that. And
please don't miss the prominence of the
Holy Spirit in this story.
Now, we come from a tradition, Churches
of Christ, where at least the last I
started to say 50, it's been longer than
that, probably close to 100 years now,
we have been very skittish,
that's probably putting it mildly, about
the Holy Spirit.
Because if we talk too much about the
Holy Spirit, people are going to think
they're going to think we're charismatic
and they're going to expect us to be
throwing our hands in the air and
dancing and having ecstasy that's going
to cause us to speak gibberish and these
kind of things. And we're we're
terrified that somebody's going to
mistake us for that. And so we just we
don't talk about it. Like it's a passing
thought here and there in scripture, but
not prominent.
As we read this, pay attention to the
prominence of the Holy Spirit. And is
this the first place he shows up? No.
The spirit of God is all over the
scriptures
in about three different ways.
We should not be bashful about God's
spirit because he's not.
I'm going to move on otherwise I'll be
rabbit trailed off. So, Acts 1:8, most
scholars see this as a theme verse of
Acts. You shall receive power when the
Holy Spirit has come upon you, and you
should be witnesses to me in Jerusalem
and in Judea and Samaria and to the ends
of the earth. If you want a good mission
plan, he's got one right here. For them,
it was to start where? Here in
Jerusalem. That's where they were.
That's the epicenter. Then what he says
after that, in all Judea and Samaria.
So, we're we're growing. and then to the
ends of the earth. Where's the where
does this stop
for the book of Acts? It's going to go
all the way to Rome, which as far as
they were concerned, that was where it
all ended. In fact, all roads lead to,
have you heard this expression? All
roads lead to Rome. And so, if Rome was
considered by the culture to be the end,
then it's probably not accidental that
that's where it all ends up.
So, it's a good theme verse. So, if
you're wanting a good theme verse,
that's it. Chapter 1, verse number
eight. If you're wanting a good mission
uh what a good mission plan, it's right
there. Start where we are. Once we get
this scoured, now what? Now, let's reach
out a little bit farther to our broader
community. We would probably call that a
county. and then to adjacent counties
until we've covered the whole state
until we've covered the United States
until we've covered well because we
travel don't we the whole world over
and in fact that's how the book is
parsed out
chapter 1 verse one through chapter 6
verse 7 uh really is a concentration on
what happens in Jerusalem in fact if you
take if you got your Bibles look at
chapter 6 verse number 7 these are some
interesting capstones. Chapter 6:7, then
the word of God spread, and the number
of the disciples multiplied greatly in
Jerusalem, and a great many of the
priests were obedient to the faith. From
chapter 6:8 through chapter 9:31,
now we're seeing it spread in all Judea
and Samaria. Take a look at 9:31. Then
the churches throughout all Judea,
Galilee, and Samaria had peace and were
edified. And walking in the fear of the
Lord and in the comfort of the Holy
Spirit, they were multiplied.
So couple things to notice. One, if one
and eight is this theme verse, this is
why scholars are thinking this is that's
what they did. They were first in
Jerusalem. And you see this capstone
verse that says that God showed up and
he caused growth. The word of God
spread. The number of disciples
multiplied greatly in Jerusalem. Great
many of the priests were obedient to the
faith. 9:31 The churches throughout
Judea, Galilee, Samaria had peace, were
edified, walking in the fear of the
Lord, and in the comfort of the Holy
Spirit, they were multiplied. God's all
over this. And now chapter 9:32 through
28:31, that's the end of the book.
That's to the end of the earth. So if
you wanted three an outline of three
topics or three what Roman numerals,
that's what they would be. Jerusalem,
Judea, Samaria, to the ends of the
earth. uh 28:es 30 and 31. I read this
last week, but it's good to repeat. Then
Paul dwelt two whole years in his own
rented house and received all who came
to him, preaching the kingdom of God and
teaching the things which concern the
Lord Jesus Christ with all confidence,
no one forbidding him.
He's imprisoned. He's in house arrest in
Rome.
And he's preaching the word.
But before they or we would be his
witnesses, they were to receive power
when the Holy Spirit came upon them. So
I want to back up to chapter 1 and I
want to look again at uh verse number
eight, make a couple other connections.
You shall receive power when the Holy
Spirit has come on you. So first, who is
the agent of this power?
the Holy Spirit. The spirit of God is
the agent of this power. That's they're
waiting for the Holy Spirit to show up
in a powerful way. Any denying that?
That's the text. What you may not see
because we're reading in English and we
don't see the Greek is that the word
there receive power is a Greek word
dunamin.
Now, that sounds a lot like or at least
if you see it printed like another word
that in our English is transliterated
dynamite. Don't get stuck on that.
Instead, what I want you to although
that's fine because what kind of power
is dynamite? Is it a little power? No,
it's a lot. Uh, every time I think of
dynamite, I think of the story of the
fellow who went out to fish and he
decided to take the game warton along
with him. And when they got out there to
fish, he reached into his tackle box and
he pulled out a stick of dynamite, lit
it, and tossed it out in the water.
Boom, here come the fish. He's gathering
them up. And the game warden's just
sitting there staring at him,
dumbfounded at this whole thing. And so
he didn't say anything. The guy reached
in tackle box, lit another one, and
threw it out the other side. Boom. All
the fish come up. He starts gathering
them up. And again, the game warden is
just stupified that this guy is doing
this right in front of him. Guy reached
back in his tackle box, lit another
fuse, and he handed it to the game
warden. And he said, "You're going to
sit there all day or you going to fish."
Dynamite
power of God. I'll tell you somewhere
else where this happens. This same word
in Romans chapter 1 and verse number 16.
You know this right?
Romans chapter 1 verse 16.
The apostle says, "I am not ashamed of
the gospel of Christ,
for it is the power." This time it's not
dunammen, it's dunamis. The difference
is one's nominative, one's accusative. I
know you probably don't care about that,
but it's the same word, just a different
form for where it's appearing
grammatically. It is the power of God to
salvation for everyone who believes, for
the Jew first and also for the Greek. So
Paul says here and we know this passage
and we quote it often. I I am not
ashamed of the gospel
of Christ
for it is the power of God to salvation.
So the gospel just connect some dots
here. The gospel is the kerugma. That's
another Greek word that means a
proclamation. That doesn't mean a lot to
you and me. To say proclamation sounds
like well it's just a great
announcement. But in these days, it
meant something different to them.
Because as Caesar conquered another
land, Caesar sent runners, messengers,
evangelists throughout the land
proclaiming that there is a new Lord in
this area. And Caesar is Lord and he was
Lord because of the power of his army
and his might. And that's what they went
and they said it. And those who were
residents of those conquered areas, they
had a choice. They could submit to the
lordship of Caesar or they're going to
die.
So when we talk about gospel now, the
kugma, the proclamation,
the proclamation that we make is not
that Caesar is Lord. Caesar's long gone,
but we make the proclamation that those
early Christians made and that we still
make, and that is Jesus is Lord. for
them they were immediately on the hot
seat. Can you see that? Because if
they're saying that Caesar not Lord,
Jesus is Lord,
that's a problem for them.
For us today,
we very often pride ourselves on the
fact that our government is a democratic
republic and so we don't have a leader
like Caesar,
right? We're we're proud of the fact
that they work for us. We're proud of
the fact that we get a vote and we get a
say in who leads or who doesn't lead.
And so they're not going to tell me what
to do. And you start saying all this
other stuff and that's not Bible either.
Submit to the governing. I'll I'll come
to that another time.
But what is it for us? Who is the Lord
that the world holds up
that our saying Jesus is Lord is
contrary? Because it's not our
government.
The government doesn't hold up the the
the world does not hold up the
government as though they are Caesar,
but we hold up other things.
Things like happiness. Happiness gets
shot to the top of the list. If it makes
you happy, you should do it, right? Uh
we we're on the heels of at least
cultural development. We're on the heels
of postmodernism, really postmodernism.
And this idea of being authentic,
that's what it comes from.
And so the idea of being yourself, that
gets pushed to the top. And so we
worship the self a lot. The self is
Lord. And so if it's something that
makes me realize me, it makes me feel
better about me and that's good and we
need to do that. But that's not what the
Bible says and that's not what early
Christians, they said Jesus is Lord,
right? And the Bible actually doesn't
say that you ought to be authentic
because authentically you and I both are
sinners. The Bible calls us to be holy
as he is holy. So that confession that
Jesus is Lord and I don't get any secret
spaces in my life where he's not
allowed.
He's Lord of all. That's important to
get. But that gospel, that's the message
proclaimed is the power of God to
salvation.
So if you've got that, keep that in your
mind. The gospel is the power of God to
salvation. You with me? And now go back
to 1 and 8. You shall receive power when
the Holy Spirit has come upon you, and
you shall be witnesses to me in
Jerusalem and Judea and Samaria to the
end of the earth. You think these things
are disconnected?
the same power of God's spirit, right?
The power. All right, let's go back
farther. Genesis, uh, God makes man in
his image. True or false? What separates
this clay model of man from being
walking, talking, living man?
God breathed into his nostrils the
breath of life and man became a living
being. Y'all with that? You know this.
So the spirit of God, the breath of God,
that's numa in the Greek, right? Spirit
of God.
In second Timothy 3, all scripture is
inspired
of God. You read this before.
All it's God breathed. That's the word.
It's a compound Greek word that
literally means God breathed. What
separates this from just being ink on
paper to being the living active word of
God that is sharper than any two-edged
sword able to divide us under joints.
And what separates those two? The breath
of God,
the spirit of God. Now, we don't talk a
lot about
the breath of God. We don't talk a lot
about the divine wind because again I
think we're terrified somebody's going
to think that we are charismatic,
but can I take a rabbit trail?
Will y'all go on a little rabbit? Well,
not a rabbit trail. Will you go on a
field trip with me? Let's go on a field
trip. 1 Corinthians chapter 2.
1 Corinthians chapter 2
beginning in verse number one.
And I, brothers, when I came to you, did
not come with excellence of speech or of
wisdom, declaring to you the testimony
of God. For I determined not to know
anything among you except Jesus Christ
and him crucified. Sounds a lot like the
gospel, doesn't it? That that would be
the gospel. That is the power of God.
Yeah. I determined not to know anything
among you except Jesus Christ and him
crucified. I was with you in weakness,
in fear, and in much trembling. And my
speech and my preaching were not with
persuasive words of human wisdom, but in
demonstration of the spirit and of
power.
I want to pause for a second where
you've got and of spirit and of power.
just in your mind every now and again
see if the word even
fits better than and because the Greek
word kai k ai if we translator or write
it it's not always a coordinate
conjunction, right? It's got other uses
and sometimes it'll magnify the meaning
a little bit. It's not to say the people
that translated I'm smarter than they
are, but our vernacular changes over
time. And I think if you gather what's
being said in demonstration of the
spirit even of power because the spirit
of God is power.
You see that right? It's not there's
spirit plus power like the power is
separate. The spirit of God is the
power. Y'all getting this?
You're looking at me like I'm This is
English, right? Is this on?
Okay. So my my words, my my speech and
my preaching were not with persuasive
words of human wisdom, but in
demonstration of the spirit, even of
power, that your faith should not be in
the wisdom of men, but in the power of
God.
Wait a minute. The power of God. Are you
thinking, Holy Spirit,
that your faith should not be in the
wisdom of men, but in the power of God?
Keep reading. However, we speak wisdom
among those who are mature, yet not the
wisdom of this age, nor of the rulers of
this age, who are coming to nothing. We
speak the wisdom of God in a mystery.
The hidden wisdom which God ordained
before the ages for our glory, which
none of the rulers of this age knew, for
had they known, they would not have
crucified the Lord of glory. But as it
is written, I has not seen nor ear
heard, nor have entered into the heart
of man the things which God has prepared
for those who love him. But God has
revealed them to us. Mark that for a
moment. I'm going to come back to it.
Who's the us? I don't think it's us like
all of us in this room. God has revealed
them to us through his spirit. For the
spirit searches all things. Yes, the
deep things of God. Now, I said I'd come
back to that. I think in the context
when Paul says us, he is talking about
himself among the apostolic college
because the spirit of God was imbued
upon the apostles.
Now, do you and I have the spirit today?
Shake your heads up up and down like
this. Yes, we do. Do we have it exactly
like they had him then? No. In fact,
when Jesus and Thomas first meet, Jesus
is resurrected and Thomas comes in. We
call him doubting Thomas. We probably
should think about that a little bit.
But Thomas, he says, "I want you," Jesus
says to Thomas, "I want you to come. Put
your hands here
or put your finger here in my hands. Put
your hand here on my side. Don't be
unbelieving, but be believing." And
Thomas said, "My Lord and my God." Is
that right?
Then Jesus said, "Blessed are those who
have not seen." and still believe.
Was the belief of Thomas weak? No. It
was based on I He was an eyewitness. He
saw, he touched, he handled. John's
going to appeal to that later when he
writes his book. We saw, we touched, we
handled. But Jesus makes this this claim
to Thomas and the other disciples who
are standing there. Truly blessed are
those who didn't have to see and touch
with their own hands, but they believe
on the testimony of witnesses, those who
did. There is a more more profound
blessing awaiting us who believe on the
testimony of witnesses than if we were
there to see it, touch it, handle it.
So when you think about the spirit of
God, when God marks his son with signs,
wonders, and miracles done in their
midst at the time,
what's the shelf life once God has said,
"This is my beloved son in whom I'm well
pleased."
What's the shelf life on that?
There is no shelf life. You know what a
shelf life is, don't you? Something
expires, right? Runs out. Sometimes you
get stuff in the fridge that's run out
of his shelf life and it needs a shave.
Put it in the trash. It's bad. Right? So
when God says, "These are my people."
And he marks them with signs, wonders,
and miracles
in the midst of others.
What's the shelf life on that? There is
no shelf life. So, even though we don't
have a a miracle being done right here,
right now to convince you, I've got a
Bible that's full of miracles.
Do you understand? I believe that a
donkey talked.
Do you know why? Cuz my Bible says so. I
believe that an axe head floated to the
surface. Sunken, floated to the surface.
Do you know why I believe that? because
the Bible says so.
So, we have God's spirit and we have all
of this stuff that was promised, though
in many ways in a more profound way than
what maybe they did firsthand. Uh we
talked a couple weeks ago about John the
Baptist,
right? But as great as John the Baptist
was, he who is least in the kingdom is
greater than he. What does that mean?
Because we're on this side of the
promises.
John the Baptizer never saw all of that.
When John was here, he was asking the
question, are you the one or should we
be we be waiting on another?
But we know, we've seen.
So the power of God. So what he's
describing there in 10, I think he's
immediate context. He's saying God's
revealed them to us through his spirit.
Now, has he revealed these to us through
his spirit? Yes. But indirectly.
It's important to get that. So, God has
revealed them to us, Paul says, through
his spirit. For the spirit searches all
things, yes, the deep things of God. And
if you're wondering, the spirit is not
some
ethereal mystical.
The reason I know that is because I'm
reading. You're reading with me, right?
In 11, he is going to illustrate his
point. What man knows the things of a
man except the spirit of the man which
is in him?
Even so, no one knows the things of God
except the spirit of the God. So, his
illustration is this. Do you know what
I'm thinking?
The only the only way you know what I'm
thinking is if I share with you what I'm
thinking. That's the only way you can
know what I'm thinking. My wife and I
have been living together for a long
long time and she's got a better guess
maybe than you have, but she still
doesn't know.
You only know to the degree that I
reveal.
What part of me knows the things of me?
What part of me
y'all are afraid
in the text? It's the spirit.
What? Read again. What? Verse 11. What
man knows the things of a man except the
spirit of the man which is in him? Who
knows the things of the man? The spirit
of the man. Now, what part of me knows
the things of me? What is the spirit?
Don't be afraid.
My mind. Now, you might be afraid
because if I say my mind, am I dumbing
that down and making it too thin and
shoving God in a box because now it's
just intellect.
No. Because my spirit also has to do
with my valition, which is a fancy word
for my will, my want to. Isn't that also
I know whether I want to or don't want
to.
What about my emotion?
That's part of it, too. And we talk
about what's in my heart, right? But
when we talk about what's in my heart,
I'm not talking about what's going, you
know, this whatever it is, a two-lb slab
of meat. I'm talking about this is still
that's that's my heart.
Y'all with me on this? And so when the
Bible talks about this, we get clues if
we'll just listen. God has revealed them
to us. He says through his spirit. The
spirit searches all things, yes, the
deep things of God. What man knows the
things of a man except the spirit of the
man which is in him. Even so, no one
knows the things of God except the
spirit of God.
So if Jesus,
follow me here. Jesus is the word of
God. True or false?
Jesus is the word of God. John 1, he is
the word of God personified.
Am I off the beam if I say that the
spirit of God is the mind of God
personified?
And when you think about the word of God
and the mind of God working together
now, don't you just want to say, "Well,
duh,
of course."
But saying that the spirit is the word
and the word is the spirit and trying to
conflate them. So they're they're one,
but they're but they're the spirit is
the spirit and the word is the word.
Can y'all see that?
I got three minutes.
All right, let's go back to Acts.
Is this helpful at all or am I just
okay? Because some of you are looking at
me like I am cuckoo kachoo.
All right. So, Acts 1:8, that is our
theme verse. But now, let's keep
reading. He had spoken these things
while they watched. He's taken up a
cloud, received him out of their sight.
So, he has now ascended to the father's
right hand. Skip down to verse number
12. Then they returned to Jerusalem from
the Mount of Olives or the mount called
Olivet which is near Jerusalem a Sabbath
day's journey. And when they had entered
they went up into the upper room where
they were staying Peter, James, John,
Andrew, Philip, Thomas, Bartholomew,
Matthew, James the son of Alphus, Simon
the Zealot, and Judas the son of James.
Who's missing?
Judas a Scariot. We'll come back to
that. These all continued with one
accord in prayer and supplication with
the women and Mary the mother of Jesus
and with his brothers.
So there's some the disciples are in
Jerusalem waiting. Now we know because
it's after the fact they end up waiting
10 days in the upper room where they
were staying. Is this the same upper
room where they shared the Passover with
Jesus? We don't know for sure. Many
believe that it was. Don't know for
sure. But among them were the 11. So
it's the 12 minus Judas a's scariot. The
women and Mary the mother of Jesus and
his brothers. Don't miss the fact that
for these 10 days after 40 days with
Jesus talking about the kingdom. Now for
these 10 days what do they do? They
continued with one accord in prayer and
supplication.
What do you reckon? They were focused on
the coming kingdom,
the coming kingdom.
And I think there's more evidence of
that because when we get into uh 15,
when we get into verse 15, in those
days, Peter stood up in the midst of the
disciples. Now altogether the number of
names was about 120 and said men and
brethren scripture had to be fulfilled
which and we'll get into that more but
they're going to appoint a replacement
for Judas
right so that they number 12 that's
really important we're going to talk
about that more but they're thinking
about the kingdom and this replacing one
of the apostles so they number 12
connects to that and that's important to
be able to see. All right, is this
useful at all? Because if it's just me
and my little like academic rabbit
trails and it's of no use to you at all,
just somebody tell me and we'll move on.
