Larry King. Most of y'all probably
remember Larry King. I don't think he's
on anymore. Is he even alive anymore? I
don't think so. He's probably not on
anymore, is he? So, um, he used to make
his living, as you know, on television,
uh, interviewing people. And, uh, he
believed that asking questions was the
secret of a good conversation. Here's a
quote. He said this, "I'm curious about
everything and if I'm at a cocktail
party, which I've never been at, but
anyway, a cocktail party, I often ask my
favorite question. Why? If a man tells
me he and his family are moving to
another city, why a woman is changing
jobs? Why someone roots for the Mets?
Why? That's a good why. On on my
television show, I probably use this
word more than any other. It's the great
question, greatest question ever asked,
and it always will be, and it's
certainly the shest way of keeping a
conversation lively and interesting. So,
I suspect to hear a lot of wives in the
hallway tonight. Sometimes, uh, little
children asked some really good
questions. I was reading some this week,
and so it was, uh, here's a few
children's question. God, thank you for,
uh, the baby brother, but what I prayed
for was a puppy. Why? Uh, dear God, if
you give me a genie lamp like Aladdin, I
will give you anything you want except
my money or my chest set. Okay, why not?
Dear God, maybe Cain and Abel would not
kill each other so much if they had
their own rooms. It worked with my
brother, I think. Okay. Um, uh, dear
God, please put another holiday between
Christmas and Easter. There's just
nothing good in there now. Could you do
that? And then, dear God, I went to this
wedding and they kissed each other in
church. Is that okay?
Uh, the Boston uh Globe carried a daily
column designed to answer readers
questions and they list the top 10
unanswerable questions. And here's
number one. I'm nine years of age
and have a cat that eats regularly and
needs to go out go on a diet. He also
eats mice when he's out.
How many calories is in a mouse?
Does anybody know?
Isidor Ravi uh a Nobel Prize winner in
science was uh asked how he became a
scientist. And this was his reply. He
said, "Every day after school, my mother
would talk to me about my school day.
She wasn't so much interested in what I
had learned, but she always asked this
question." Did you ask a good question
today?
He said, Isidor Robbie said, asking good
questions made me become a scientist.
Did you ask a good question? I like
that. So, we have three questions as you
see probably coming up there. There they
are. Those are the three. Um, we're
going to look at the first one obviously
now. It probably take us about maybe 30
minutes, maybe not. Going to try to get
through it a little quick quicker than
that. So number one, balancing spiritual
work, marriage, parental, caring,
giving, uh, personal interest from
Philippians 2 3-7. So that's kind of the
way the questions asked. So you'll see
how I answer it. Let nothing be done
through selfish ambition. I'm reading
the passage now, or conceit, but in
loneliness of mind, let each esteem
others better than himself. Let each of
you look out not only for his own
interest but also for the interest of
others. Uh let this mind be in you which
was also in Christ Jesus who being in
the form of God did not consider it
robbery to be equal with God but made
himself of no reputation taking the form
of a bond servant and coming in the
likeness of men. So basically to answer
that we'll just break that passage down
kind of in a format that will help a
little bit. F first the best I can give
you is the truth about uh balance and
appropriate deeds. So first we'll look
at what it's talking about here as
indeed so we can be balanced and
appropriate in our spiritual work,
marriage, parental care, all that kind
of thing. Uh and in that uh it would
suggest to us let each of us not be
competitive
u not do competitive things toward each
other in the kingdom. Selfish ambition.
So uh let's try not to outdo each other
and be competitive in anything we do
right as brothers and sisters and let
each of us not do conceited things
toward each other. Let's do the best we
can to not act like we think we're
superior to others. This is the way they
said it. Uh uh not conceited but in
loneliness of mind. Let each esteem
other better than himself. We should
each as a body of Christ treat every
brother as if they're superior to us.
Just treat them that way. They don't
have to be. Even if they're you think
they're definitely not, treat them like
they are. And then let each of us not do
callous things toward each other,
unfeilling. It says, "Look out not only
for his own interests, but also for the
interests of others." When you stop
caring about other people's interests
and their situations, you your heart is
beginning to be callous. You got to
care. I got to care about you. You have
to care about me. We have to care about
each other and not just do what's in my
best interest. We can't think like that.
Okay. Uh the best I can give you also in
in this truth is the idea of our
desires. We have to be balanced and
appropriate in our desires. So it's not
just our deeds if we're really going to
follow what this is saying in
Philippians chapter 2. So let each of us
not desire equality above all.
In other words, don't make it a big deal
if someone doesn't treat you as if
you're their equal. We should not just
treat each other as our equals. we
should treat each other as if you're
better than me. But since that's the
case, don't get caught up in that
equality thing. Uh he did not consider
it robbery to be equal with God. He
didn't want to take that from him. It
wasn't the point. So don't make that a
big issue. Jesus, he had equality with
God, but he didn't make that an issue.
In fact, it you don't even hear him make
comments much about that. Let each of us
not desire glory above all. In other
words, making sure we get the attention
that somebody te knows what we did. Uh
he sought no reputation. It's okay if
nobody knows what we did. Amen. I mean,
we do a good deed and the best good deed
is the one nobody knows we did,
right? Amen.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah. See, they're not excited
about that one, but it's true. Okay. Uh
let each of us not desire slavery above
all. Isn't that the form of a
bondervant? Uh
it's it is important for us to be
bondervants, but not to be a bondervant
that's more important than the rest of
the bondervants.
So I don't I'm not the best bondervant.
Yeah. So try not to desire that. So a
spiritually balanced way of treating
your work, your co-workers, your mates,
your parents, your children, uh
caregiving to anyone and your personal
interest is to be balanced and
appropriate through your deeds and
desires. So focus on your uh desires and
your deeds. So that's the best answer I
can give you that uh that I can from
just that simple question. uh focus on a
balanced appropriate deeds and balanced
inappropriate desires.
Probably if I had to say the biggest
danger is desires.
Okay, second question.
What does being wise as serpents but
harmless as doves look like? Well,
that's a statement in Matthew 10:16.
Behold, I send you out as sheep in the
midst of wolves. Therefore, be wise as
serpents and harmless as doves. So,
we'll break that down just a little bit.
Help you if if that's the question. What
What does that mean? How's that look? Uh
so, I send you out as sheep in the midst
of wolves. The basic idea is that since
the disciples were to be like sheep
amidst wolves, that means there would be
enemies of the faith, which they are
today, but not as severe as they had at
that time.
uh they would need to be shrewd uh as
snakes and as innocent as doves. Now uh
these words probably came from a a a
proverb or a saying uh that was known to
be shrewd as snakes or shrewd as snakes.
Uh like likely to speak of the
cleverness of snakes that came from
Egyptian influence because the Egyptians
use snakes as a symbol of wisdom. uh and
to avoid danger because they said snakes
were good at that of avoiding danger. I
mean you think about it they are very
vulnerable. Snakes are on the ground. Uh
everything's above them virtually. So
they have to be careful to keep from
even being stepped on. So the idea is
that they are very good at avoidance.
uh to be innocent as doves is to be
sincere with pure intention. So
shrewdness without innocence is pretty
bad. That's that's wickedness. Uh and
then uh this harmless innocence without
any kind of shrewdness ends up making
just look like a person that's a fool.
So that's not good. So we need that
balance.
Uh Jesus disciples needed to be ready
for what was coming and it was going to
be rough. All of them were killed except
John and they tried to kill John. So uh
tough times were coming and they would
need to be unafraid and also be able to
conduct business. And I'll get to that
in just a moment, how that's important,
that the goal isn't to be in a dangerous
situation to prove you're a good
disciple.
He warned uh that his gospel would not
be received very well. And so it wasn't.
Uh be wise as serpents and harmless as
doves. Go a little further with that.
Serpents are watchful of danger and
they're also quick to defend themselves,
but quicker to escape. If you've ever
you've ever seen a snake in the forest
somewhere and if you give it just a
second, you won't see it again.
Y'all know that about snakes, right?
Y'all been in the woods much? I spent my
childhood in the woods. And if they want
to disappear, they can disappear. Within
three steps, they're gone. And you won't
see them in the woods. Doves are not
aggressive. They're clean. They're the
poorest nest builders in the in the bird
kingdom. You ever seen a dove nest? Oh,
it's pitiful. It's like this and that's
it. Barely barely can balance an egg on
it. You ever seen it? It's It's bad.
They are not They are not weaver birds.
Okay. I feel sorry for the male weaver
birds, though, cuz she just comes and
tears those up all the time. And no,
that's not good enough. We'll build
another one. No, that's not good enough.
No, but so he doesn't have that problem.
His wife's not like that. Doves are uh
not aggressive. um a young Philip in
South Africa we when we were doing one
of the congregations that we started in
South Africa uh we were working together
to start that church and a young fellow
Philip I won't call his last name he was
new from America and he had done some
some interesting things one of the
things he done is he worked on the
Bearing Sea if you know anything about
the Bearing Sea and the weather and
catching uh you know whatever they were
catching crabs or whatever it because
it's dangerous work. Y'all watched it on
TV. It's dangerous. And he was an
adventurous sort of guy. So one night he
called me over while we were were
working on a campaign. He called me over
and said, "U Rex said, uh, I want you to
know I'm not afraid." I said, "Okay."
He said, "No, I want you to know I'm
willing to do something dangerous. You
got something dangerous that you want to
do, I'll do it for you." And I said, '
Okay.
I said, 'What do you mean?' He said,
'Well, I'm not afraid.' He said, 'I I'm
willing to go out there and I I would
die for the kingdom.' And I said, okay,
what do you mean? He said, "No, I'm not
afraid. Just ask me to do anything." I
said, "Brother, I could give you a
brochure, hit you, drop you out on the
the Golden Highway, and you'll be burned
by morning."
They'll they'll uh necklace you. You're
a white man. They will kill you tonight
and you will die a miserable death. You
really think they'd be serving the Lord?
Is that your goal to get killed? You
really think that the apostles went out
to be killed? Do you have any idea that
they did not want to be killed to be
wise as a snake? Right? You try not to
be. Don't you think that God never
intended for you to run around and try
to get yourself into a mess so you could
be killed? I said, "Your thinking's
wrong, everybody. You're supposed to
survive as long as you can and do as
much good as you can. If you live to be
120 and keep teaching the gospel, you've
done better than the guy killed at 20
because he thought he was being smart
standing on the Golden Highway handed
out brochures about Jesus.
You will be dead in the morning." I
promise you. That was up then. I don't
know what it's like now. And um so Jesus
fled when John was arrested. You ever
noticed that?
Hello? Did you ever notice that Jesus
fled when John was arrested?
You think he's scared?
Of course he was. But it wasn't just
that. He had a mission. You got a
mission. You guys have a mission. Don't
let yourself get killed early. Don't die
early. Take care of your body. Do the
best you can. Be healthy. Eat right.
Live as long as you can. Serve the Lord.
Have as many children as you can. Do as
much good as you can. There you go.
That's the real message. 1 Corinthians
13 1-3. Dying for Jesus isn't
necessarily a sign of love.
It isn't necessarily a sign of
commitment to Jesus. Sometimes it's a
sign of, "Hey, look at me. I'm not
afraid."
Yeah. You haven't heard that one, have
you? All right. So, that's it. That's
the answer to that question. Let's uh
move on to the third question.
So, divorce and remarage. I have no idea
what they're looking for here.
I do not know what was being asked. That
was the question. There it is. So, I've
got to give you an answer in kind of a
weird kind of way and then I'll give you
some summary statements that should
probably make everybody mad, which I'm
pretty good at.
Under the law of Moses, that's the law.
Read those passages. Exodus chapter 21
talks about two forms of divorce that
aren't discussed generally in a
discussion about it. People think that
the only discussion about divorce is in
Deuteronomy 24. That is not true. It is
discussed in Exodus 21. It is discussed
in Leviticus 20. It's discussed in
Deuteronomy 22. But it isn't called
that. But that is what it is discussing.
The separation between husbands and
wives. And there is in the Old Testament
more than one reason to be able to get
out of a marriage or to get out of a
marriage because of what's being done.
And that's very clear. And by the way,
Jesus wrote the Old Testament. He is the
word of God. Prophets, the prophets also
talk about it and they have various
things to discuss about that point. Ezra
9 and 10, really interesting study. I
recommend you do that. Nehemiah chapter
9, chapter 10, examples of divorce for
reasons other than uh adultery. though
actually in that Texas because they had
married people who weren't uh kingdom
people they were were not faithful and
they were leaders particularly uh the uh
Levites and the uh priesthood which was
forbidden by the law so they couldn't
stay married to them and continue in
their role so because you wouldn't be
sure to keep the line going. There's a
lot of reasons going into that and I
don't have time for that right now.
Hosea uh chapter 1 through3 as you know
uh that's a case of a woman that he
married that he knew was going to be
unfaithful because who the people she
came from and of course she was
unfaithful and went back into that and
uh they were separated for a time and
then he remarries her takes her back.
Isaiah 50:1 is a good text on that.
Isaiah 57, Jeremiah chapter 3 is an
interesting text verses 1-8 where it
says that God says not to do something
in Deuteronomy 24 and then God says,
"But I did it." Malachi 2:es 15 and 16
is a text that needs to be read and
understood. Most people who quote it in
the New Testament don't hear it quoted a
lot have no idea what it's talking about
there. It's talking about being
treacherous to the wife of your youth.
Uh, and well, I'll talk about that again
here in just a moment. The next one's
the writings. The writings discuss
divorce. And Job 24, Proverbs chapter
6:26 through35 discusses this whole idea
of divorce and adultery.
The Lord Jesus and the apostles
obviously talked about it. Matthew
chapter 5, you know that passage, I'm
sure. You only have Matthew 5 and then
Matthew 19 that talks about the
exception that everybody thinks that's
the only exception because he's uses it
there. I think you've misunderstood the
text. Mark chapter 10 uh talks about it.
John, Romans chapter 7, by the way,
Romans chapter 7 implies that there's a
remarage, but in the Greek there's no
remarage mentioned in the text.
Something you might want to look at
because I was wrong about that for many
years. 1 Corinthians chapter 7:10-16
is also on this subject and it allows
you to do something that it forbids you
to do which is an interesting concept
and so you might want to read that. So a
thousand questions and syllogisms that
we could derive from all of that. I'm
telling you you could come up with
everything in the world uh cuz I don't
know what the question is. I'm these are
just scriptures. You go and you read
them yourself. I don't know what's being
asked. I really don't know what's being
asked. And since I'm not sure what the
question is, I thought it best to just
give you the primary scriptures on these
subjects. And if you've never read all
these passages and you think you know
everything there is to be said about
marriage, divorce, and remarage, and you
haven't read everything I just laid in
front of you, you should not be talking.
Go read everything it says on throughout
the whole Bible, and then you can say
something. Until you do that, you need
to be very careful what you say.
uh a general summary is to note the
damaging effects on a woman and this is
what see generally the Jews did not let
let women divorce although it's
mentioned in Exodus 21 that a woman can
but generally the Jews didn't see it
that way they didn't want to think that
women had that kind of right but of
course Mark makes it clear that they do
okay Jesus makes it clear that they do
but the Jews didn't want to receive that
and and What that led to is really abuse
of women in even more ways. So I need
you to understand that mostly what's
being discussed in scripture is to
protect women.
Okay? It's about protecting women
particularly women who are either barren
or who have children and he is divorcing
her because if you divorce a woman and
for adultery he did not keep the
children and they lose their
inheritance. Do you do you understand
that concept? Now just think about what
that would mean to those children and
that woman. And if she has no children
at all and she's divorced and he's
divorced for that, think about what that
does to her. She has no backup plan when
she gets old. It is now you're
understanding the meaning in Malachi.
If you catch that and why it was such a
terrible thing, a treacherous behavior.
Everybody thinks it's about sex
and that's the that's the reason that's
not the issue.
The issue is that's not the subject.
Everybody's missing it just about. The
issue is taking care of that wife.
If you can get that in your head and
then reread everything that's in the
Bible, suddenly it will start snapping
what it's really about. Okay? That's all
I can tell you cuz I don't know what
your question is.
I don't know what your question is. All
right. So now here we go. Uh the
question uh balancing spiritual work,
marriage, parental, caregiving, uh
personal interest, we kind of looked at
that. What is being wise the serpent
with harmonous doves? Kind of looked at
that. Divorce and remarage. Not sure.
It's great to study and ask uh questions
to answer questions. Beware you don't
get caught up in knowledge. U love is
more important than knowledge.
I know it's hard to imagine. You may
think that if you know a lot that's
really great makes you a great person.
No, not my experience. Love makes you a
great person. You'll be a great person.
Love everybody. Amen. Love everybody.
Those are good people. Ignorance can be
our problem. Yes. But we have bigger
problems. And I want to tell you this
story. So for more than 20 years,
Professor Edwin R. Katy of the
University of Pennsylvania law uh used
to start his first class of the semester
with doing this. He would walk up to the
blackboard. Yes, they used to have
blackboards. We don't have those anymore
any of the universities, but he'd walk
up to the blackboard and he would write
the number four and a little space and
then he'd write the number two. He write
four,
two. You got it? not 42 but four and
then two
and then he would say this
what's the solution
students would call out six
somebody else would say two
someone else would say eight
and then he would say all of you failed
to ask the key question What was the
problem?
Gentlemen, unless you know what the
problem is, you cannot possibly find the
answer.
So the teacher knew that in law, as in
everything in life, too much time is
spent trying to solve the wrong problem.
So don't just look at
what a jumped at thing. Otherwise, we
end up polishing the brass on a sinking
ship. We only miss the whole point of
what we need to be doing. And the our
problem is a sin problem.
Therefore, the solution is Jesus. Our
pro what's your problem? I need to know
the answers to all these questions.
That's not your problem. Your problem is
a sin problem. My problem is a sin
problem. And the thing I need most is
Jesus. Amen.
There it is. And you can study and know
and study and know and know the Bible
cover to cover. And if you miss what we
just said right there, you've missed it
all. If you because you answer a lot of
questions and know a lot of Bible and
you don't understand this basic thing is
your biggest problem isn't your husband.
Your biggest problem isn't your
children. Your biggest problem is not
your boss. Your biggest problem is not
making ends meet at the end of the
month. Your biggest problem is sin. Sin
is your biggest problem. It is always
our biggest problem and the only way to
solve that problem is to have a
relationship with Jesus Christ and be
forgiven of our sins through the blood
of Jesus Christ. And until you find that
solution, you're wasting your time
faffing about all the others. So with
all that, all other knowledge becomes
feudile. So answer these questions. If
you're not right with God tonight, you
don't need to know the answer to these
questions.
You need to be right with God. Amen. So,
if you're here tonight, you haven't
gotten your heart right with God, let's
let's work on that. You want to come
forward tonight. We'll help you repent
of your sins, confess the name of
Christ, be baptized even on a cool
winter night, or uh we'll help you pray
for whatever the problem you're facing.
But first, deal with your sin problem.
If you need to come, come while we stand
and while we
