A paradox.
A paradox is a seemingly absurd
or seemingly self-contradictory
statement or a proposition that when
investigated and explained proves to be
wellfounded
and true.
The cross itself is a paradox to many,
in fact to almost everybody.
The cross paradox shows us that the
gospel is an upside down truth.
That the world itself is actually upside
down in its thinking and its
philosophies. It is
180 degrees wrong.
And therefore we feel sorry for those
who live that way because woe to those
who call evil good and good evil.
The Lord turns the ways of the worldly
wicked. And by the way, even if they're
good people, if they don't have Jesus,
they are still the worldly wicked. And
their ways of thinking are upside down
to what makes us right side up. Psalm
146 and verse 9 says, "The Lord relieves
the fatherless and the widows, but the
way of the wicked, he turns upside
down." It's the only way to get it right
side up.
Because the worldly wisdom sees the
gospel as the upside down way to their
ways. Acts 17:E6, it was said by one of
them clearly that they dragged the
brethren to the rulers of the city and
crying out, "These men have turned the
world upside down." Amen. Amen.
The world is upside down
and the only way to get it right is to
turn it upside down. To get it right
side up. The cross paradox shows us that
the gospel is offensive to worldliness.
Everything about what we teach. I know
you might pick and choose. Oh, I know
it's that subject or it's that subject
or exact subject. No, my friend,
everything we teach is in opposition to
everything you get taught in this world
related to any kind of way of living or
life philosophy. Isaiah 8:14,
he will be a stone of stumbling and of
rock of offense. The world loves to say
nice things about Jesus and ignore
everything he taught. 1 Corinthians
chapter 1 and verse 18. The cross is
foolishness to those who are perishing.
They see us wasting our morning being
here to even have any message about
this. In Matthew 16 verse 25, whoever
desires to save his life will lose it.
But whoever loses his life for my sake
will find it. They don't understand that
concept at all. They don't understand
that you've had to give up your life and
it was the best thing you ever did.
In Mark 10:es 42-44, it says, "Rulers
over the Gentiles lorded over them. They
lack the power." The world loves power.
They love authority. They love to
dictate terms. Some of us like that too
much, by the way. But the world loves
it. They wallow in it. and they exercise
authority over them. But verse 43 of
Mark 10 says, "Yet it shall not be so
among you.
But whoever desires to become great
among you shall be your servant, and
whoever of you desires to be first shall
be slave of all." Tim Keller says it
this way. God defeats sin, death, and
evil not through power, but through
weakness,
suffering, and death. The world doesn't
understand that at all.
And Michael Card back in 1984 in a song
said, "The power of paradox
opens your eyes, but it blinds all those
who say, I can see. I see it." No, they
don't.
No, they don't. The cross paradox shows
us the beautiful love of God's heart for
you and me. In John 3:16, you know it so
well. For God so loved the world that he
gave his only begotten son. There's the
great message that we're actually
proclaiming that they don't think they
really need that.
1 John 3:16, but this we by this we know
love because he laid down his life. We
didn't even know what love was until
that happened. In Romans 5 and verse 8,
God demonstrates his own love toward us.
We find out what real love is. The world
doesn't know. People, they talk about
they love each other and their marriage
ends in three weeks. They have no idea
what love is. They don't understand the
concept. They're not really aware. The
cross is God's love story. It's God's
love power acting on us. Even though we
apparently are foolish and weak,
God's cross is love simultaneously
bringing in absolute justice while
showing absolute mercy. Now, how do you
pull that one off?
Through the cross.
&gt;&gt; The cross is God's love for us as he
made the unjust, you and I, just before
God. How do you pull that off? How do
you turn a wicked person, a sinner, into
a just person as you've been done? He
did it. The cross is God's love
demonstrating
how, and listen to this, how the
suffering are not all evil, which the
world wants to maybe, oh well, you just
did something dumb.
But Jesus was the best that we ever had.
and he suffered. So if you're suffering
today, it's not necessarily a testimony
of something you've done wrong. Although
we've all done wrong and we're all
sinners, it doesn't mean you've been
abandoned or that you're exceptionally
wicked. God, however, can work by it, in
it, and through it. And he did that with
Christ on the cross. Now, George Bernard
said this way back in 1913.
Oh, that old rugged cross
so despised by the world has a wondrous
attraction for me. Does it have a
wondrous attraction for you? For the
dear lamb of God left his glory above to
bear it to dark Calvary in that old
rugged cross stained with blood so
divine a wondrous beauty I see. for
which was on that old cross Jesus
suffered and died to pardon and sanctify
me.
Yeah. So, I'm going to use a lot of
scripture today. So, if you don't like
that, you're going to hate this. But I
want you to understand I'm not really
trying so much to motivate you to do
something different today. Are you
hearing? That's so you're kind of off
the hook today.
What today is about is worship.
I want you to realize why you should
worship.
I want you to have an appreciation for
what has been done. I think the greatest
theological truths are not about what
you need to do this week with the guy
you work with.
The most important thing is to do what
you do right here, right now when we are
worshiping and truly on our knees and
our heart.
So, it's humorous, but it's not funny
that the highly as I suppose probably
the smartest people on earth, the
highest intelligent people look down on
believers like you and me. And you may
be exceptionally smart. I'm not trying
to put you down. That's not what I mean.
I'm just telling you the people of this
world who think they're the smartest
think that we're a bunch of simpleans.
They believe that what we believe is so
simplistic and unfounded it seems
nonsensical to them.
And so I'm afraid some of us start
thinking that way, especially some of
you who are pretty smart.
I want to nullify that within your heart
and then on your knees in your heart to
humble yourself to see what great things
have been done for you. Okay, so there's
a lot of verses throwing a bunch at you
real quick, but here we go. Three simple
points though. The cross paradox is that
the cross is God's power. Let's read it
again. 1 Corinthians, if you want to
turn there, I encourage you to do that.
Uh, a Bible is a good thing to own.
Verse 18, for the message of the cross
is foolishness to those who are
perishing, but to us who are being
saved, it is the power of God. For it is
written, I will destroy the wisdom of
the wise and bring to nothing the
understanding of the prudent. God's
power brought salvation. But listen to
me, he brought it in weakness. He
brought salvation by birth. And he
almost died to have a child. Ladies, you
know this well. By birth of a son, by a
virgin seed without a man being
involved. In Genesis 3 and:e1 15 it
says, "And I will put enmity between you
and the woman talking to Satan and
between your seed that is Satan's seed
and her seed." What's he talking about?
He's not he's talking about a person now
because he goes on to say he that is her
seed. He shall bruise your head and you
shall bruise his heel as in the cross.
In John 10 and verse 35 it says the
scripture cannot be broken. So if you
don't believe in the virgin birth of
Jesus, you really don't believe the
scriptures. John 17:17 says, "Thy word
is truth." It's absolutely 100% true.
But I want you to see the power of this
weakness. And John Isaiah 7:14, it says,
"Behold, the virgin shall conceive and
bear a son." Something impossible. It's
a silly idea. All the world knows that a
virgin can't have a child. Actually, not
all the world. We know that a virgin can
have a child and did have a child. In
Luke 1:es 26-35
is a great text. I'd love to read all
that, but for our time, I'll just read
34 and 35. Then Mary said to the angel,
"How can this be since I do not know a
man? I've never touched a man that way."
Verse 35. And the angel answered and
said to her, "The Holy Spirit will come
upon you, and the power of the highest
will overshadow you. Therefore, also the
holy one who is to be born will be
called the son of God. There's real
power out there, folks. And it's not in
this world. It doesn't belong to the
powerful people of this world. Oh, no.
It belongs to the power of God. Hebrews
7:10 says he was still in the loins of
his father. Here's the truth. He had to
come through a virgin because all of
mankind was under the curse of death. He
had to not be worthy of the curse of
death. Therefore, he came through a
woman who doesn't bear the curse onto
the next generation. It is through the
male seed that that happens because of
Adam's sin passed on to us all the guilt
of death. And so when sin and guilt
comes upon mankind, we all deserve it.
He however should not have been killed.
It's a different thing. And not only
that, he never sinned because he did not
bear the taint of sin upon him. He lived
a sinless life. But that is still looked
like weakness to the world. The cross
paradox is that the cross is God's power
that brought salvation by the birth of a
little bitty baby to a virgin. That's
power. Now that may not sound like
power, but that's real power. Second
truth, the cross paradox is that the
cross is God's wisdom. Again, back in
your text, if you have your Bibles open,
look at verses 20 and 21. Where's the
wise? Where is the scribe? Where's the
disputer of this age? All these smart
people. Has not God made foolish the
wisdom of this world? They're all fools.
They just don't know it. And it's sad.
It is sad. Verse 21. For since the
wisdom of God, the world through wisdom
did not know God. You cannot know God
through science.
You cannot know God through philosophy.
You cannot know God by being a good
English major. You cannot know God
through history. That's not the way you
know God.
You can know about God, but you cannot
know God, which is a different thing
entirely. But let me go on. He goes on
to say, "For it pleased God through the
foolishness of the message preached to
save those who believe." You may think
it's foolish, but this is the way every
man will be saved who is saved. There it
is. That's all there is to it. God's
wisdom brought salvation by belief in
what? Substitutionary atonement. If you
don't believe in substitutionary
atonement, you don't believe in Jesus.
We must believe in substitutionary
atonement. It seems impossible by the
way to the world it is impossible to the
normal thinking even to temper normal
Jewish thinking of the Old Testament.
Let me read you some of the Old
Testament on that thought in Deuteronomy
24 and verse 16. Fathers shall not be
put to death for their children. A
father can't die for their child and
save their sins. Nor shall the children
be put to death for their fathers. A
child cannot die for his father and save
him from his sins. A person shall be put
to death for his own sin. That's the
teaching of the Old Testament law. So,
how in the world could Jesus, a man,
come and die for your sins? Since it's
not possible for a man to die for your
sins, you must die for your own sins.
You don't see that as a paradox. It's a
problem. And yet Isaiah 53 makes it very
clear in verse 5. He that is talking
about the Messiah, he was wounded for
our transgressions, for our
transgressions. He was bruised for our
iniquities. The chastisement for our
peace was upon him. And by his stripes
we are healed. How'd God pull that off?
I mean, that's not possible. We just saw
it. The law forbids that. You can't do
that. Yet, he did it. And their wisdom
sees our wisdom as foolishness. But the
truth is their wisdom is foolishness.
Because the truth is first Corinthians
15:3,
Christ died for our sins according to
the scripture said it would and he did.
How? 2 Corinthians 5 21 says he made him
who know knew no sin to be sin for us.
How did he do that? That we might become
the righteousness of God in him. It's
very clear. He actually did it through
the law.
He did it through the law. If you're
Jewish today and listening over the
internet, he did it through the law.
Read your law. Deuteronomy 21:es 21- 23.
It says verse 22. If a man has committed
a sin deserving of death and he is put
to death. Now, what would be a sin that
would be deserving of death? You have to
think about that a second. We're going
to come to that in just a moment. I'm
going to tell you what the sin was that
they put Jesus to death for or what they
thought was the sin. But let me read on.
If a man has committed a sin deserving
of death, and what they accused Jesus of
was deserving of death. If he were
really guilty, he deserved to be put on
the cross. There's no question about
that. If Jesus was a liar, if he wasn't
who we think he should have been killed,
should have been killed. Absolutely.
According to the law, if we follow the
law, let's stay with it. If a man has
committed a sin deserving of death and
he is put to death and you hang him on a
tree. Ain't that interesting? Hang him
on a tree. Why a tree? Goes back to the
garden, but we're not don't have time
for that right now. Verse 23, his body
shall not remain overnight on the tree,
but you shall surely bury him that day
so that you do not defile the land which
the Lord your God is giving you as an
inheritance. Right? So you don't want it
to defile the land. Why? For he who is
hanged is a cursed of God. Now that's
what the scripture says. And you know
the scripture cannot be broken. I said
that a moment ago. Remember that. And
the scripture is the truth, not some of
the truth. So what was true once Jesus
was hung on a tree at death?
He was declared a curse of God to keep
the scriptures true. Uhoh. Well, then
what you supposed to do with that? Well,
Paul dealt with that. So, if you don't
think I'm dealing with it correctly,
Paul dealt with it. Galatians chapter 3
and verse 13. Christ has redeemed us
from the curse of the law, having become
a curse for us. For it is written,
cursed is everyone in hangs on three.
Wait a minute. How did he become a curse
for us since he was declared a curse?
Never sin. Wasn't born of a man. Didn't
inherit the guilt of death. Even
shouldn't have been killed. Shouldn't
have been allowed to be killed.
shouldn't have died on a tree, but he
died on a tree and therefore he was
declared a cursed of God according to
the law. But since he wasn't guilty of
sin and he wasn't a cursed of God, then
now you have the just has to be declared
just, but he wasn't. He was declared
unjust. So if the un the just can be
declared unjust, guess what? The unjust
have to be declared just because that's
the truth. That's what he says. 1 Peter
3:18, "Christ also suffered once for
sin, the just for the unjust, that he
might bring us to God, being put to
death in the flesh, but now made alive
by the spirit." may sound foolish, but
it's the absolute truth that the cross
paradox is that the cross is God's
wisdom that brought salvation through
what we now know as substitutionary
atonement. He died in your place for you
and that's how he did it for every man.
The last point I want you to see
is the cross paradox is that the cross
is God's offense. Let's keep reading our
text. Verse 22. For Jews request a sign,
and Greeks, that's the smart people of
the world in his day. The Greeks seek
after wisdom, but we preach Christ
crucified. To the Jews, that's a
stumbling block. And to the Greeks,
that's just foolishness. Really smart
people to see it as foolishness. But to
those who are called, both Jews and
Greeks, Christ the power of God, and the
wisdom of God. Because the foolishness
God is wiser than men and the weakness
of God is stronger than man. Why do the
Jews consider it a stumbling block? Word
stumbling block, scandalon. It basically
just means like a a a trip snare thing
that catch you out. It'll catch you off.
It becomes an offense to you. Tries to
catch you. And the word foolishness
comes from the idea of what word we use
today is but it's moros. It means
to be dull or stupid or foolish. And so
what to them we seem dull and to the
Jews this is a stumbling block. Why is
it a stumbling block? Because what they
thought and what they still think about
the Messiah. See God's offense brought
salvation by blasphemy.
Jesus was accused of blasphemy. Why was
he accused of blasphemy? Because he was
called the incarnate son of God. In
Genesis chapter 22 7 and 8 it says but
Isaac spoke to Abraham his father and
said my father and he said here I am my
son. Then he said look the fire and the
w wood but where's the lamb for a burnt
offering? And Abraham said my son God
will provide for himself the lamb for a
burnt offering. And so he did. How's
that? Psalm 2:7 here's the prophecy. The
Lord has said to me, you are my son
today I've begotten you. He's his son.
And Isaiah 7:14, and he shall she shall
bear a son and should call his name
Emanuel, that is God with us. God was
coming to be on earth. God can't be a
man. Isaiah 9:6, "For unto us a child is
born, unto us a son is given, and the
government will be upon his shoulders,
and his name shall be called Wonderful
Counselor, Mighty God, Everlasting
Father, Prince of Peace." Oh yes,
apparently God found a way of becoming
man, and he did it through the message
we just said a minute ago. But being
God's son, he was accused of blasphemy.
You see, he had to tell the truth. He
had to say, "I'm the son of God." That's
the truth. He had to tell it. But that's
why they killed him. They they would
have stoned him, maybe. But what they
wanted to do is they didn't want the
blood on their hands. So, they wanted
the Romans to kill him. And they wanted
to kill him in such a public way that
could be don't you don't listen to the
things he has to say. So, let's get the
Romans to kill him. Let's get the Romans
and kill him with the with the cross.
And you know what? They won't blame us.
They won't put it on us. It won't be the
Jews that did it. It won't be the
leadership that did that. Everybody
wanted And then the Romans wanted to
wash their hands. Nobody wanted to be
found guilty. Here's the people who are
guilty of killing Jesus.
Every last one of us. And it's blasphemy
that we killed him for. Matthew 26 verse
63. But Jesus kept silent. And the high
priest answered and said to him, "I put
you under oath by the living God. Tell
us if you are the Christ, the Son of
God." And Jesus said to him, "It is as
you said." Nevertheless, I say to you,
hereafter you will see the Son of Man
sitting at the right hand of the power,
that is God, and coming on the clouds of
heaven. Then the high priest tore his
clothes, saying, "He has spoken
blasphemy.
What further need do we have of
witnesses? Every one of you seen it.
Look now, you have heard his blasphemy.
What do you think? And they answered and
said, he is deserving of death to say
he's the son of God.
So the cross paradox is that the cross
is God's offense. How did God manage to
be found guilty of something he didn't
do wrong
so that we might be declared innocent of
things we did wrong? He brought
salvation by supposed blasphemy by the
incarnate son telling them the absolute
truth. Now, ain't that amazing? Now,
here's the interesting thing. Can I talk
just a minute about that? A lot of you
don't believe that kind of thing
happens. Can I give you just a few
examples? Okay. So, God tested Job by
Satan who came among the children of
Israel. You mean God used Satan? Yeah.
But God did no wrong to Job. Satan did.
How did he do that? God hardened the
heart of Pharaoh in Exodus 7 and 8. And
yet God did no wrong. He hardened
Pharaoh by blessing him. How did he do
that? God persuaded
Ahab by a lying spirit in First Kings
22.
How did he do that? Because the lying
spirits have to answer to him, too. He
just allowed them to do what they wanted
to do anyway.
How did he do that? God sent a strong
delusion to every man who wants to
believe whatever they want to believe.
How does he do it? By sending rain on
the just and sunshine on the just and on
the unjust. He just he just is good. And
they believe what they want to believe.
God sent his son to die by wicked hands
upon a cross. And how did you do that?
by allowing them to do what they wanted
to do. Anyway, folks, it is humorous,
but it is not funny that the highly
intelligent people look down on
the cross and being simpletons who
believe they think unfounded foolish
ideas. I want to tell you something
folks, this is not simpleton stuff.
Martin Luther said, "No theology is
genuinely Christian which does not arise
from the focus on the cross." There's
the truth. Isaac Watts I think probably
the greatest song writer in the last
century
last two centuries in 1707 said when I
survey the wondrous cross on which the
prince of glory died
my riches gain I count but loss and poor
contempt on all my pride.
Forbid it, Lord, that I should boast,
saving the death of Christ my God. All
the vain things that charm me most, I
sacrifice them through his blood. See
from his head, his hands, his feet
sorrow and love flow mingled down. Did
air such love and sorrow meet or thorns
composed so rich a crown? Were the whole
realm of nature mind
that were a present far too small,
so amazing of a love and so divine
demands my soul,
my life, my all. I know this is
theological and I know some of you it
lost you about 5 minutes in, but I want
to tell you something. And if you can
get a hold of this, it'll change your
worship. You won't sit there like a rock
unemotional.
I'm talking to you.
Talking to those of you who don't sing.
Talking to those who don't even bow your
head when we pray. I'm talking to you.
I'm talking to you because I know a good
chunk of this church is not worshiping
in the middle of worship.
You have no appreciation for what's been
done for you. You haven't thought about
it. You haven't thought through it. You
don't understand the depth of it. And
you don't care. You are so busy about
your own little affairs. All you've been
thinking about during this whole worship
service is things you've got to worry
about. You've been so caught up in
yourself. You're me me.
Worship is about you.
Hadn't thought about the next person
next to you. Hadn't thought about the
worship. Hadn't thought about God. It's
I'm just telling you. I just know the
truth. You may not know the truth, but
I'm telling you the truth about you.
Get off yourself and get on your knees
before God. Realize what God did to save
your little soul.
Come here in agony about what you've
done wrong instead of feeling fairly
good about who you are. I'm a pretty
good person. You're a sinner.
You should be lost. You should be down.
But you've been saved by the grace of
God. Amen. You've been saved.
How do you not rejoice? How does this
not fill you? How does your worship not
blow out of you every Sunday? How does
it not? How do you not want to stand up
and praise God? I I I know we don't clap
our hands and jump around, but maybe we
need a little of that because there's
something wrong with us if we never get
excited about worshiping God. There is
something wrong with us. And if you
can't accept that there's something
wrong with us, see, listen to me. The
thing wrong with us called s i. And
who's got a problem with that? All of
us. You got a problem with that. You got
a terrible problem with it. And you
don't. You're so arrogant. You don't
understand it. YOU ARE SO FULL OF
YOURSELF. Who's full of THEIR SELF?
EVERY LAST ONE OF US. WHAT'S THE LUST OF
THE FLESH, lust of lies, boastful pride
of life? WHO DO YOU THINK IS ARROGANT?
EVERYBODY.
EVERYBODY,
everybody's a sinner. Everybody did
stuff this last week you ought to be
ashamed of. Every one of us come here
humble. Realize what's been done for
you. He bled out for you. This is not a
casual little thing.
We treat this like it's a social meeting
and this is before the holy God.
But you know what?
He did it.
And it is the power of God. It is the
wisdom of God. And it is the offense.
And that's the reason the world doesn't
like us. And it's sometimes the reason
you don't like your brother because he's
actually trying to live it and you
aren't.
If you need to come, come while we stand
while we sing.
