Now, I'm going to quote
quite a few people this morning. The age
of self-fulfillment is alive and well
among us. So, I'm not talking about our
culture right now. I'm talking about us.
Okay? You can throw off on our culture
another day.
Let's take a look at us.
David G. Briner or Benner 79year-old
psychologist spiritual author wrote
this. St. Ignatius of Loyal
notes that sin is unwillingness to trust
that what God wants is our deepest
happiness.
Until I am absolutely convinced of this,
I will do everything I can to keep my
hands on the controls of my life because
I think I know better than God what I
need for my fulfillment.
This guy Jenthali
says he's 50 year old author,
consultant, preacher. He wrote, "My
secret is
that I want to be relevant and popular.
I want my desires fulfilled and pain
minimized.
I want a manageable
relationship with an institution rather
than messy relationships with real
people.
I want to be transformed into the image
of Christ by showing up at entertaining
events rather than through the hard work
of dis discipline. I want to wear my
faith on my sleeve and not look at the
darkness in my heart. And above all, I
want a controlled God. I want a divine
commodity to do my will on earth as well
as in heaven.
Mark Sers, 40-year-old Australian
preacher, author and podcaster says, "We
subtly embibe the implicit prosperity
gospel through commer consumerism and
advertising, but also through viewing
the lives of other Christians who seem
to lead amazing, meaningful,
pleasurefilled lives. We do not
recognize the way in which the implicit
prosperity gospel affects us until our
unspoken expectations are not met. We
understand that God would ask people in
the twothirds world to give up things to
sacrifice. But our heresy hidden under
the surface is our belief that God would
not ask Western people to deny
themselves.
John McMr on this same subject writes,
"Freedom has been redefined.
It used to mean the freedom to want the
good, the beautiful, and the true, and
to exercise the willpower to do the
good, the beautiful, and the true." But
now when people talk about freedom, they
basically mean the freedom to do
whatever they want as long as they don't
hurt anybody.
The modern western world does not like
the idea of kingship or queenship or an
absolute authority at all.
We prefer democracy where every man is
his own king and every woman is her own
queen. So this idea of Jesus as the king
with a capital K which is what Messiah
or Christ means. It means king is so
against the flow of our culture because
the heart of kingship is the idea of
authority and we are anti- athoritarian.
To come under authority is to surrender
under your own free will and valition.
your autonomy and control over your life
to somebody else. And we hate that in
the West.
The age of self-denial
is well documented by the disciples of
Christ.
Jim Melot, who was 29 when he was killed
as a missionary in South America in
Ecuador,
wrote this a few days before he was
killed along with four other men
by the people he was trying to save. He
is no fool who gives up what he cannot
keep to gain what he cannot lose.
That's nice for him obviously, but not
for us, right?
Dallas Ward Willard, excuse me,
professor of philosophy wrote,
"Self-denial is the overall settled
condition of life in the kingdom of God,
better described as death to self. In
this, and this alone, lies the key to
the soul's restoration.
Christian spiritual formation rests on
this indispensable foundation of death
to self.
Ambrose Milan who writing on repentance
in chapter 10 wrote this.
It's often attributed to Augustine but
he did not say this. Let the man deny
himself and be wholly changed, as in the
fable they relate, of a certain youth
who left his home because of his love
for a harlot. and having subdued his
love, returned. Then one day, meeting
his old favorite, and not speaking to
her, she being surprised and supposing
that he had not recognized her, said
when they met again, "It is I."
But was his answer, "I am not the former
eye."
Self-denial.
The apostle Paul writes about it at
length. Galatians 2:20.
Obviously, I've been crucified with
Christ. Nevertheless, I'll live. Yet not
I, but Christ liveth in me. And the life
which I now live in the flesh. I live by
faith in the Son of God who loved me and
gave himself for me. But here in
Galatians chapter 5, he writes it this
way. I say then, walk in the spirit, and
you shall not fulfill the lust of the
flesh. For the flesh lusts against the
spirit, and the spirit against the
flesh, and these are contrary to one
another, so that you do not do the
things that you wish. But if you are led
by the spirit, you are not under the
law. Now the works of the flesh are
evident which are adultery, fornication,
uncleanness, lwdness, idolatry, sorcery,
hatred, contentions, jealousies,
outbursts of wrath, selfish ambitions,
dissensions, heresies, envy, murders,
drunkenness, realies, and the like. of
which I tell you beforehand, just as I
also told you in times past, that those
who practice such things will not
inherit the kingdom of God. But the
fruit of the spirit is love, joy, peace,
longsuffering, kindness, goodness,
faithfulness, gentleness, self-control.
Against such there is no law, and those
who are Christ have crucified the flesh
with its passions and desires.
What is following Jesus in self-denial
all about then?
Because it sounds like our culture, and
I mean even in our church culture,
there's something not quite right.
It is saying no to spending our time and
money on whatever we want.
It is saying no to a life of autonomy
where I'm in control and to live in
community of a church that he's called
me to, not independently on a fishbank.
It's saying no to selfexpression
of our sexual identity and our own
fleshly desires.
It is saying whatever he says to do I
will do it. It is saying wherever he
says to go I will go. It is saying
whenever he says to go I am ready. It is
saying whatever he says to give I will
give it. It is saying I've like Luke
14:28 already counted this cost
and that I have already sold all to buy
that field.
The refiner's fire
has now become my sole desire.
So, I want to look at
five defining traits because, and I
don't mean any insult here.
I don't think we know what it is
anymore.
I don't think we know what self-denial
is in anymore.
So, I'm going to try to define it
several times. It's going to get a
little monotonous and you can look up
all the scriptures you wish, but I want
to define it several different angles to
help you maybe search your heart and see
if you've really engaged in self-denial.
Okay, you have to decide I can't.
Number one, the demonstration of
self-denial. What is the demonstration
of self-denial? It's clear in this text
that was read a moment ago, verse 22,
saying, "The son of man must suffer many
things and be rejected by the elders and
chief priests and scribes and be killed
and be raised the third day. He is the
demonstration of self-denial." If you
want to know what self-denial looks
like, look at Jesus. There it is. That's
it in a nutshell. So therefore,
self-denial means willing to be
mistreated,
treated with contempt. Mark 9 verse12
said he would be Luke 18:12 says he
would be mocked, insulted, and spit
upon. Would you be willing to be
offended at church,
somebody didn't talk to you exactly
right, and still come to church?
Self-denial means being rejected.
You're not the one they wanted. And yet
you don't let that bother you. In
Matthew 26 65 and 66 he has spoken
blasphemy. What do you think? They
answered and said he is deserving of
death. He just said he was the son of
God. They don't want him like that.
He was rejected. That's what self-denial
is. Accepting it. Self-denial means
being crucified by others. Luke 23 21
they shouted saying crucify him crucify
him.
Okay. So the demonstration of
self-denial is Christ and him crucified.
That's the demonstration. Are you
following that demonstration? Doesn't
matter what I say from here on out. You
can disagree with everything just said,
but the idea that we're self-deniers and
we don't use Jesus as our example is not
really honest, is it?
Secondly,
the denials of self-denial. What are the
denials of self-denial? Verse 23, then
he said to them all, "If anyone desires
to come after me, let him deny himself."
What is
that? So self-denial means saying no to
self. It's like the rich young ruler,
the flip of him. You remember he was
asked to give up all and immediately he
went away sorrowful because he was not
willing to deny himself what he could do
with what he had. He was going to do
what he wanted to with what he had. and
nobody was going to tell him different.
Self-denial means disowning self. It's
kind of like Peter when he denied the
Lord Jesus that night, he denied with an
oath, I don't know the man. Except it's
I don't know the man.
Self-denial means refusing self. When
what Jesus says seems to be too hard to
accept, like this lesson, we just stop
following. That's kind of John 6:66.
They walked with him no more because he
said something just a little too harsh
for them. Just, you know, it doesn't
take much. You know, the difference
between some people that they can take
it and they can't is about that much.
just a little too harsh. So the denials
of self,
it's just saying no to me.
Number three,
trying to define it. There's a
dailiness, the daily of self-denial.
It's not something we do on Sunday.
This is something we do.
It's every day, every hour, when it's
convenient, when it's not. Verse 23
says, "Then he said to them all, if
anyone desires to come after me, let him
deny himself and take up his cross
daily."
So, self-denial means daily obscurity.
What do you mean by obscurity? Matthew
25:13, you know neither the day nor the
hour in which the Son of Man is coming,
folks. to follow the Lord in obscurity
is to not know what God's doing. I don't
have to know. It doesn't have to work
out the way I think it should. It
doesn't have to be my flow. I don't have
to be happy with how it's going. I live
in obscurity. I don't know what's coming
next and neither do you. But we still
follow the Lord. We still follow the
Lord. Self-denial means daily humility.
That I must be willing to be humiliated
even but to be humble for sure. Mark
13:31-32,
"Heaven and earth will pass away, but my
words will by no means pass away, but of
that day and hour, no one knows, not
even the angels of heaven, nor the son,
only the father." This is Jesus talking.
I don't know when that day is. That's
Jesus.
I don't know when the day is. That's
humility. That's emptying yourself to
the point, I don't know what go is going
to happen tomorrow, but I'm going to
serve him today.
And then self-denial means daily
ministry. Matthew 26:55, I sat daily
with you teaching in the temple and you
do not cease me. It's a dayby-day thing.
Do it every day. Talk to the people you
work with. Talk to the people you play
with. Talk to your family. Talk to them.
Minister to them. Speak to them even
when you don't want to. Absolutely.
That's the time you really need to do
it. When you don't feel like doing it,
that's when you must do it.
Dailyiness of self denial, it's obscure.
The disciplehip of self-denial described
in this text. Listen to it on. So, I'm
just defining self-denial what it is.
You think through it yourself. Then he
said to them all, "If anyone desires to
come after me, let him deny himself,
take up his cross daily, and follow me.
There are things to do."
And you have to understand, it isn't
about me. It's about him. Follow him.
Self-denial means being a disciple of
Jesus self. What was he like? that I
desire to come after me. I must be like
him. I must forget what I want to be
like and look at what he was like and
try to imitate his self. Self-denial
means being a disciple of Jesus way. I
must forget my ways in the way I like to
do things and try to do things his way.
I follow me. He says self-denial means
being a disciple of Jesus sake. I must
forget what the sake I live for. The
cause I think is so important in my life
and I must adopt his cause. Whoever
loses his life for my sake or my cause.
Are you on board with his cause? Not
your cause but his cause.
So the disciplehip of self-denial is
Jesus himself.
It's hard to talk about this. But number
last, the desire of self-denial. It goes
on to say verse 23, then he said to them
all, "If anyone desires desires to come
after me."
I think that's where we are.
I I think that's where we are. I I'm not
sure we're doing it, but we desire to do
it.
I'm talking about me now. I'm not
claiming to do this. I'm claiming to
desire to do it. Septidadile means
desiring Jesus more than, listen to this
word, more than life. Verse 24, for
whoever desires to save his life will
lose it. But whoever loses his life for
my sake will save it. That's a hard
choice. Self-denial means desiring Jesus
more than gain. Luke 9:25, "For what
profit is it to a man if he gains the
whole world and is himself destroyed or
lost?"
We all want money.
There's not a person sitting here that
don't want more than they've got.
We like it. We like to be able to go to
the store anytime we want, go on a trip
anytime we want. We want to be able to
fly anywhere WE WANT. WE ALL like that.
You think that that's just you. That's
all of us. But there should be a desire
in me
that the gain of everything is not my
number one gain.
There should be a self-denial meaning
that desires Jesus more than fame or
popularity. In Luke 9:26 says, "For
whoever is ashamed of me and my words
of him, the son of man will be ashamed."
Embarrassed.
Are you embarrassed to be a Jesus fan?
Are you embarrassed to be about Jesus in
front of people that aren't us? Oh, it's
easy to stand up in Bible class, isn't
it? where everybody's on your team.
It be about Jesus in your family when
they mock you for being a Christian.
That's a fake Christian already.
You know what it's like when he comes in
his glory, his father and his holy
angels. He'll be ashamed of us. We're
ashamed of him. That there's got to be
that desire. So, I'm trying to define it
because I don't I don't know that I know
it. I'm trying to define it from these
scriptures because quite honestly, I'm
not sure if I've ever experienced it.
I'm not sure.
But these are some of the things you
need to take a look at. The
demonstration of self-denial is Jesus.
The denials of self-denial. clearly what
he denied himself the daily is not just
occasionally
the disciplehip of it following him and
the desires
somebody might say well Rex I live I I
don't know what about you sounds like
you don't live it so I live a
self-denial life I'm not a western in my
thoughts nor am I concerned with
self-fulfillment
all I can say to that is that's
wonderful I'm thrilled that you're the
exception of the rule. Many of the rest
of us though struggle with our cultural
desires. We want the way of Jesus and
the way of the West. We want to be
generous and yet rich. We want to be
like Jesus and the celebrity. We want
character but no suffering with it. We
want humility but no humiliation. We
want patience but not waiting for
anything. We want to be full of kindness
but have no annoyance by anybody else.
And we want to have God but not through
hardship or hard praying or hard
studying or hard fasting or hard
self-discipline.
We wanted all self-fululfillment
with no serious selfdenials.
I'm afraid that's true.
Daniel Yanovich
Yanklovich, I said it wrong.
He's a social science professor, New
York University,
died back in 2017. He documented
something that happened in the 70s. So,
this all happened mainly in the 70s, a
massive shift in our culture. He said it
happened in the 70s. His book was called
Searching for Self Fulfillment in a
World Turned Upside Down. He said the
old rules changed.
Those old rules emphasize duty. Duty to
everybody. Duty more than anything else.
Duty to family. You do it. And if
someone happened to act in a selfish way
and got caught at it, they were
embarrassed that they did not fulfill
their duty. They looked ugly to the
people around them. But that's no longer
the rule. The rule changed.
He says it's now the duty to self ethic.
That's the ethic we live under. That's
where we're at. Our primary
responsibility, he said, is now for our
own needs and our own interest. All
other relationships, all other values
must fit into that order of priority. me
first, you second. If I get in a line, I
must get in the line before you. Don't
you dare get ahead of me. Don't you dare
pull your car in front of me. Don't you
dare talk to me that way.
Feels that the movement may be
liberating at first. In fact, we all
thought in it all. He He was an honest
scientist. He bought into it. He thought
this was the way it would go. And after
tracking 3,000 people in personal
in-depth interviews and analyzing
hundreds and even thousands of
questionnaires, he admitted that so far
this search for self-fululfillment has
absolutely accomplished nothing.
It has resulted in insecurity and
confusion.
He asked what is self fulfillment and
then when you find yourself what will
you do with yourself?
The frightening thing is
that 83%
of America at this point has bought into
it.
These new rules
either in whole or in part. Self-
fulfillment is what life is about.
All us foolish people.
But of course, that wouldn't be true of
Christians, right? That's what we would
all think. It couldn't be. The problem
is James Davidson Hunter who followed up
on Yanovich's work. He said he examined
students all kinds of universities but
in 16 leading evangelical colleges and
seminaries. Yankeov's earlier
questionnaire was used and there was a
conclusion made that evangelicals are
more committed to selffulfillment than
their sec secular counterparts. He says
we're more into the self-fululfillment
than they are.
Now wear that a minute.
The percentage of ev evangelical
students agreeing with these statements
far exceeded the corresponding
percentage of general population.
Self fulfillment is no longer a natural
byproduct of a life committed to a
higher ideals, but rather is a goal
pursued rationally and with calculation
as an end in itself. The quest for
emotional, psychological, and social
maturity therefore becomes normative.
Self-expression and selfreization
compete for self-sacrifice
as a guiding life ethic.
There we are. You have the old lesson. I
don't know what to do with it either.
You're sitting there going, "What am I
supposed to do with this?" I don't know
what you're supposed to do with it. I
don't know either. I'm as confused as
you are because I followed the rabbit
down this rabbit hole as well. I used to
read all the self-help books that I
possibly could. I thought that was the
way to go. I believe you believed in
yourself. All that stuff. I did it, too.
I've got Well, I don't anymore, but I
had books on my shelf that went on and
on. I'm just telling you straight up.
And now I'm sitting in a culture.
Listen, I'm in a culture and I'm not
fixing to make a political statement,
but it's going to sound like one, so
please forgive me.
This no Kings protest, massive
nationwide, international even.
It's a demonstration from 2025, 2026
targeting Trump Trump's actions. I don't
care what you think about him.
Protesters argue that President Trump
was acting like a king, a monarch, a
tyrant, and demanding democracy be
upheld. Okay, great. That's fine. But
listen to me. No kings.
Who do you think Jesus is?
I don't trust any of these guys. I'm not
talking about that. But you better have
one.
He better. Listen to me. This is a
subject of authority. I'm fixing to
teach the Bible class on authority. This
is a serious matter. If you don't
believe anybody has authority over you,
you're in trouble.
You're in serious trouble because there
is one that'll show you one day when you
are like this. He's going TO SHOW YOU
THAT DAY. IF YOU DON'T KNOW IT NOW, YOU
WILL KNOW IT.
&gt;&gt; You will be on your knees. And you think
that's going to be, oh no, THAT WON'T BE
THE WAY. NO, EVERY ONE OF US will be on
our knees. Who do you think he is? He is
the King of Kings. He is the Lord of
Lords. We better understand that now and
buckle under now to him because if we
don't, if we live a life that's all
about us, we're going to find out we
weren't doing the right thing.
So if you and I can accept his authority
and by the way his dictatorship,
you won't get a vote in heaven.
You think we're going to have a poll.
We're going to come up with a new rule
in heaven. We're going to have a poll in
heaven. No, there won't be a poll in
heaven. There'll be no social research
going on. God will say, "Uh, and that's
it."
Hello.
Do you want to follow a king
or you just want to be your own your own
your own thing? I'm afraid I want to be
my own thing.
If you're like me, you need to repent.
There may be someone here who's decided
to truly make Jesus Lord of their life.
You can repent of your sins, confess the
name of Christ, be baptized today. But
that's just the beginning.
Self-denial is a tough path.
Come walk it with us the best we can. If
you need to come, come while we stand
and while we sing.
