So uh in in honor of what I heard u
about camp the last lesson I heard of a
preacher known for lengthy sermons
and uh he he got up and he preached and
uh while he was preaching in the middle
of his sermon which was going on a long
time almost an hour and in the middle of
it uh a guy got up and just left and he
was a regular member. He was shocked by
it. And then toward the end of the
service, the guy came back in and sat
down. And so when the service was over,
the preacher was a little perturbed by
that. He went up to him, says, "U,
where did you go in the middle of
worship?" He says, "Well, I went to get
a haircut." He says, "Well, why didn't
you do that before service?" He says,
"Well, I didn't need it then."
All right. tonight. Here we go. Um, you
know, sometimes, y'all seen this what
I'm what I'm doing right here, and I'm
not trying to be political. I'm just
making a point. Reporters sometimes make
long speeches
instead of a asking questions. Have
y'all noticed that? Is it just me that?
And so sometimes asking questions can
become a platform to voice an opinion
rather than to gather facts. So we need
to all be conscious of that whenever
asking questions. It can be
grandstanding as I put up here. It can
be maybe pushing an agenda sometimes
just being opinionated u a little long-
windedness. uh I wouldn't know anything
about that personally, but opposing uh
standard thoughts or authorities on
particular subjects sometimes or it can
just be divisive and uh we we just need
to be aware of that. So when we're
asking questions, do the best we can.
We're human. We're going to ask
questions sometimes that on second
thought we might not ask. But here's
here's the questions we have right now.
And I want to I want to walk you through
them and you'll understand what I'm
saying about this first question. And
not mean no harm to anybody cuz I'm
going to try to actually deal with this
properly. Uh when God gives the body a
spirit, does he create it and this is
the first question create it at
conception or is it eternal? If eternal,
God must have all souls with him and
then must decide which body receives
which spirit or soul. If so, that could
make him a respector of persons unless
each spirit is quote unquote a blank
slate and develops into a mature person
in the body. And then give scriptures.
This also is in light of man's free will
and that God is no respector of persons
and that each person is accountable for
his own sins and gives scriptures to
back that up. And then he makes of one
blood all nations. He has pre-appointed
our times in the spa place we will dwell
and we are his offspring. So that makes
several statements too. Second question
is a little little shorter. If we uh
were baptized or immersed but uh not
repented I assume means we did not
repent beforehand and then repented at
some time later. Are we saved? We'll
deal with that. And then the last one
I'm not sure you can call this a
question. So let me just read it for
you. It would be wonderful to hear a
series of lessons about things God has
prepared for us through the ages
beginning with the creation, law, uh,
nations, languages during the silent
years between the testaments, the birth
of Christ, his life, his death, the
church, the preaching down to time that
we live now. 1 Corinthians 2:9. I I tear
up when I start thinking about how very
blessed we are. Agree with that. He has
never required more than to love him and
obey him. Okay, so those are the
questions. We'll see if we can work our
way through that because the first
question, okay, I had to break it down.
So those are the questions as you see
and I didn't want you to read them all
cuz take you all day to read. So here we
are. This is the first question. But
what I've done here is I'm breaking this
down into different parts and that's the
only way I knew to answer this because
it's it's actually kind of complicated.
So the first question really to me when
I read that is when God gives us or
gives the body a spirit does he create
it at conception or is eternal. So I
think that's the first real question
here. Uh there is and I and I have to
say this right now there literally is no
scripture of souls preexisting before
creation or before conception. There's
nothing on that subject. If that's the
truth, God didn't tell us about it. My
guess is because you didn't tell us
about it because it certainly isn't the
truth. Now, I couldn't prove that
because it doesn't say that. But here's
what we do have. Genesis 2:7, "And man
became a living being or a nepish when
he he breathed into his nostrils." In 1
Corinthians 15:46, it says, "The
spiritual is not first, but the natural
and afterward the spiritual." So, that
seems to suggest a principle that would
be true. I couldn't absolutely nail it
on this, but it appears to be true that
the natural comes first and then the
spiritual. So that would suggest maybe
that the body comes forth first and and
with the spirit rather than uh spiritual
life before the body, but that isn't
what that's about. So I can't make that
proof. In Luke 1 and verse1 15, he will
also be filled with the Holy Spirit even
from his mother's womb. So it is
possible to think of before uh you're
born that you do have a spirit then and
that you are alive as a human being
then. And I think that's the conclusion
we should make from that passage. And
Luke 1:41, this is John the Baptist when
Mary came in. It says the babe leaped in
her mother's womb in Elizabeth's womb.
So but that still doesn't teach what the
question is about. The second part of
this is for knowing doesn't mean we
exist before conception nor stop free
will. So that's an important thing that
seems to be suggested in the question.
Uh but we can't go there. Uh for knowing
does not mean we exist before
conception. And Jeremiah 1 vers5 which
is the the passage that was referenced
in the question before I formed you in
the womb I knew you. that does not
require the soul existing. That's just
for knowledge. Uh it could be that but
it doesn't say that in the text or any
other. So Psalm 139:6
uh being yet unformed and in your book
they all were written the days fashioned
beforehand when as yet there was none of
them. So the idea that God knows
everything that's going to happen in
your life before you're born is an
absolute truth. But it doesn't require
you existing for that to be true. uh
because you'd know that the day you were
born or years later. 1 Peter 1 and verse
two uh elect according to the
fornowledge of God is generally the way
we interpret most of this stuff. And so
uh God just knows stuff and he can't not
know it. So that doesn't mean uh you
exist except in the mind of God. Uh then
in addition to that uh Jesus uh
pre-existed.
Now, he really did, but Jesus did not
pre-exist. I say that because that's not
appropriate to say that Jesus
pre-existed. It's only appropriate to
say the word of God pre-existed and God
pre-existed. To say Jesus pre-existed is
to suggest that the human being Jesus
pre-existed. The human being Jesus
didn't exist until the human being was a
human being. And he wasn't until he was.
uh Luke chapter f uh 2 and verse 52 and
Jesus increased in wisdom. So uh he as
the word of God pre-existed but after
birth and now a soulbearing individual a
spirit bearing individual he's like any
other man to some degree and therefore
he had to mature and so he increased in
wisdom. John 1, I mean, because his his
baby brain knew nothing, as far as we
know, any more than yours does. And John
1 14 and 15, the word became flesh.
Verse 15, he who comes after me is
preferred before me, for he was before
me. So he existed before, but Jesus
didn't. Does that make any sense? But
anyway, so he as the word of God and as
God uh he existed previously. John 8
verse 58. But there's nothing said about
you and me like that. John 8:58 says
Jesus said before Abraham was I am. So
he did pre-exist
u in a different form. And then uh the
next part of that is we're trying to
walk through the question so it makes
some sense with the kind of answer you
give is the soul is clearly not eternal
like God. That's not to say the soul's
not eternal, but it's not eternal like
God is eternal. And to think that all
eternality is exactly the same is to be
a little shortsighted. Psalm 41:13, the
Lord God is from everlasting to
everlasting. That's the kind of
eternality he has. You don't have that.
You never had that. You never will have
that because you started and you go from
that point. God isn't like that. Uh 1
Timothy 6:16 puts it this way. Who alone
has immortality? So God literally
possesses immortality. You do not. You
don't possess immortality. That's a God
thing that God has. So that's another
part of this. In Matthew 10 and verse
28, it says this, "Fear him who is able
to destroy both soul and body." So
theoretically, God could destroy all of
it because it's his. He does whatever he
wills with what what he has. In Matthew
16 26, it says he loses uh you can lose
his own soul. Whatever that means,
that's a term that's used. Luke 12 and
verse 20, the night of this night your
soul will be required of you. So that's
another term. You can take it different
ways. In 1 Thessalonians 5:23, it says,
"Your whole spirit, soul, and body be
preserved until the day of Christ." So
apparently it is possible for all three
of them not to be preserved. So that's
something you have to consider as well.
If you know, I'm being a little vague,
but I'm trying to be honest with the
text. So the next part of this question,
this is the next part of the question is
God is no respector of persons. What
does that mean though? Because a lot of
people use that and I I've seen some
really sloppy Bible comments made about
God not being a respector of persons. So
I needed to comment a little bit on
that. God uh decided
um basically about this a long time ago
and so he made us this way. Uh but
here's the point that they're trying to
make about the pre-existence. So God
decided our will before we had a will or
when we pre-existed before conception.
Okay, that's confusing to me. So God
definitely as the judge of all the earth
shows no partiality. What does that
mean? Well, he's said in a lot of
places. Acts 10:34, as you know, when
Cornelius's household is being reached
out to as the first non uh circumcised
or um part of the Jewish family already
by becoming a uh well, we're just looked
away. Anyway, God shows no partiality to
anybody or any nation. It's the point
that he makes there. U Deuteronomy 10:17
says, "God shows no partiality nor takes
a bribe." Uh 2 Chronicles 19:7,
uh there's no iniquity with the Lord and
no partiality. So God doesn't show
partiality to anybody. But what does
that mean? Let's go into that just a
little bit. So no partiality or no
respector of persons. What does that
mean? Well, uh, powerful or weak, rich
or poor, has no bearing with God's
judgments about individuals. Job 34 and
verse 19 says, "He is not partial to
princes, nor does he regard the rich uh
more than the poor, for they are all the
work of his hands." Doesn't impress him.
uh small or great has no bearing upon
his judgments or his thoughts about you.
Deuteronomy 1:1 17, you shall not show
partiality in judgment. This is the law
now talking to judges. And you shall
hear the small as well as the great. Now
then it goes on to suggest poor or
mighty has no bearing on judgment or
justice with him. Leviticus 19:15,
"You shall do no injustice in judgment.
You shall not be partial to the poor,
nor honor the person of the mighty."
Now, it's an important thing for you to
recognize. People tend to be partial to
one another. People tend to want to be
partial to the rich, hoping they'll get
some of that. People tend to be partial
to the poor because they think they've
been downtrodden by society and we owe
them something. We don't owe the rich
anything. We don't owe the poor anything
when it comes to justice.
Sorry, that's just the truth. Uh God's
justice is affected by any and every
people who fear God and work
righteousness. Acts 10:35, in every
nation, whoever fears him and works
righteousness is accepted by him. The
next part of this, all right, therefore
becomes this question. Uh he has
pre-appointed our times in the places we
will dwell. What does that mean? Uh not
that we pre-existed and God put souls
where we want souls to go before
conception. Okay. Uh that's a problem.
God set the boundaries of places, times,
seasons, and peoples. That's true. Acts
17:es 26 and 27 puts it this way. And he
has made from one blood every nation of
men to dwell on the face of the earth
and has determined their pre-appointed
times and the boundaries of their
dwellings. Now, that doesn't necessarily
mean that he decided you would have to
live in America, but that there would
have to be somebody living in America.
He did decide that that there would be
an America, that there would be an
Israel, that there would be these
places. And a lot of that's determined
literally by the geography of the earth.
In Deuteronomy 32 and:8 it says, "The
most high divided inheritance to the
nations. When he separated the sons of
Adam, he set the boundaries of the
peoples." So literally where people
would live is determined whether you
have thought about it very much by
several things. Rivers, lakes,
mountain ranges, oceans. If you just
look at that alone right there, you know
that that's what separates most people
into various categories. That's why we
have the cultures we have behind us more
than any other reason. It's rivers,
lakes, mountain ranges and and the like.
Okay. So, uh he changes the times and
the seasons and he removes kings and
raises up kings. So, this is absolutely
true too. God is in charge of the epics
of the world.
Okay,
there he's in charge of the fact that
Nazi Germany was defeated.
That's on his list, right? He's in
charge of the fact that Rome existed but
doesn't anymore. In charge of all the
kingdoms. So you could study Daniel and
you could easily see that this is from
Daniel 2 and verse 21. So that
definitely is true. All right. So the
next part of that then is God sets the
boundaries people and times and we do
not pre-now such things
act and we're not allowed to you are not
allowed to know if America will last.
It's none of your business. You're not
allowed to know whether or not Europe
will survive. It's none of your
business. You can pray about it, but you
don't have any control over it. You
don't have any control over whether or
not Soviet Union will end up coming
back. Don't think that's going to
happen, but you don't have any control
over it. Acts 1:7, he that is Jesus said
to them after they ask him this
question, is it at this time
uh that you're going to restore the
kingdom to Israel? Is it now? Is it now?
Is this it? It's just a time. And Jesus
is not interested in that. But more than
not being interested in that, his answer
is this. It is not for you to know times
or seasons with the father has put in
his own authority. It's none of our
business. The history of the world
that's coming at us is none of our
business.
Mark chap. In fact, it wouldn't be good
for you to know. I don't want to know
what's going to happen tomorrow exactly.
Do you? I mean, that'd scare me to
death. I think if I knew the day ahead,
I'd probably mess it all up. But Mark
13:es 32 and 33, we studied this in
John's class not long ago. Of that day
and hour, no one knows, not even the
angels of heaven, nor the son, but only
the father. Take heed, watch, and pray
for you do not know when the that time
is. If that's about the end of the
world, I I suspect that's not a
statement about the end of the world.
But if that's about the end of the
world, we certainly don't know that. I
think it's really more just about basic
history that was coming into Israel. In
1 Thessalonians 5:es 1 and 2, it says,
"Concerning the times and the seasons,
you have no need that I should write to
you because you know perfectly that the
day of the Lord so comes as a thief in
the night." When's the Lord coming?
When's your next thief coming?
If you know when your next thief is
coming, if you believe the Bible
revealed to you when the next thieves
are coming, then you could probably
interpret the book of Revelation. Until
then, you don't know. You don't know
when the next thief's coming and I
wouldn't want to know anyway. I'd
probably end up getting shot or
something. All right. So, look at this.
This is the final part of that question.
We are his offspring is said. And I say,
well, uh, not that we were living with
him before conception. So, that's not
that's not what's encompassed here.
Mankind is God's offspring. That's
right. The heathen poets got it right.
Acts 17:es 28 and 29 the poet said for
we are also his offspring since we are
the offspring of God it says verse 29 so
mankind is God's offspring but mankind
is also God's sons are God's children
Luke chapter 3 and verse 38 says the son
of Adam the son of God so Adam was the
son of God you are a son of Adam
therefore you're a son of God that's
basically uh Mindle's law mankind is
God's children Psalm 82 2:6 I said you
are gods and all of you are children or
sons of the most high God. So and then
mankind has God as our father otherwise
it's inappropriate to say that and uh
they didn't think that way. Uh actually
Keegan did a great uh job on that a week
or two ago. Psalm 89:26
he shall cry to me you are my father my
God. So mankind has one father who
created us. Malachi 2:10. Have we not
all one father? Is one God who created
us? Okay. The final part of this,
believe it or not, of this one question
is mankind is made in the image of the
father, but we are different. And the
point I'm bringing all that up to is
does man pre-exist? We are made in the
image of God. That does not mean we're
exactly like God. And by the way, God is
not like us. It is inappropriate to say
God is like us. It's appropriate to say
that we are like God, but it isn't
inappropriate to say we are like God in
every way because that's just not the
truth. That's not even close to the
truth. In Genesis 1:es 26 and 27, it
says, "Then God said, let us make man in
our image according to our likeness." So
that means like something but not the
thing. So God created man in his own
image, in the image of God he created
him. And then L uh Numbers 23:19, God is
not a man that he should lie, nor a son
of man that he should repent. So he's
he's not even even Jesus, not a son of
man. Hosea 11:9 in the fullest sense of
the word. Anyway, Hosea 11:9, I am God
and not man. So do not think that we
have to be like him. Our souls being
somehow pre-existing or eternal in the
heavens. That's not the case. There's no
indication of that at all. There's no
reason from this to think that we
pre-existed before conception. That's my
understanding. Uh, welcome your
comments. And I covered a lot of
territory to try to get to that one
little thought because I wanted you to
fully understand the question that I'm
struggling with. Okay. Second question.
This one maybe you'll enjoy a little
better.
If we were baptized or immersed but we
did not repent beforehand and then
repented at some time later are we
saved? It's pretty interesting question.
Uh so all biblical baptism
I'll make a real clear statement. All
biblical baptism is a baptism repentance
leading to change. That's an absolute.
There is no example other of any other
kind of baptism. So Mark 1, John comes
on the scene. He's baptizing with a
baptism of repentance for the remission
of sins. The idea of baptism is what?
Remission of sins. No, the idea of
baptism is repentance
for the remission of sins. In Luke 3:3
it says of baptism repentance for the
remission of sins. Acts 2:38 repent and
let every one of you be baptized in the
name of Jesus Christ for the remission
of sins. But it didn't say just be
baptized for the remission of sins.
That's not the way to say. Acts 13 24 it
talks about the baptism of repentance.
So baptism was always seen as being
connected with the idea of dying to
yourself, coming up and being a
different person. That's the way it was
always looked and pictured in the
scriptures. So the second thought you
need to look at here is that repentance
is a change of heart that leads to
change in our deeds. I said deeps, but
it's deeds. Here's the thing.
Repentance is not a change of your
deeds.
there. That's not in the Greek. It's a
change of heart. So somebody says,
"Well, he didn't repent." You have no
ability
to know that
except by their deeds. And even then,
it's impossible to know that. Only maybe
that person in God would know if their
heart changed. You say, "Well, then
their deeds would change." Yes. But I
don't know about you, but my heart has
changed this way before and then it's
changed this way.
It's changed back and forth sometimes on
some stuff. Right.
Right. Think about it this second.
Matthew 3:8,
bear fruit worthy of repentance. Not
bear fruit of repentance. It's bear
fruit worthy of repentance. fruits prove
that change of heart, but the fruit is
not repentance. Repentance is the change
of heart.
Okay, it's really important. So in 2
Corinthians 7 9 10 it says, "Now I
rejoice not that you were made sorry
because by the way sorry for what
happened is not repentance."
Okay? That you're made sorry, but that
your sorrow led to repentance. So, you
can feel bad about a thing because mom
and daddy caught you. But that's not
necessarily change your heart. Okay? If
mama just caught you doing something or
daddy caught you doing something and
you're about to get a whipon, that's
you're sorry about that, but that's not
repentance. Repentance would be
something like, "Man, I shouldn't have
done that. That was wrong." That's the
kind of thing repentance is. Okay. But
listen now. He says, "For you were made
sorry in a godly manner that you might
suffer loss from us in nothing." See, if
you really have that change of heart,
then you don't see this. When someone
gets on to you
and you know you did wrong, right? And
you really have a repentant heart. You
are not angry with the person getting on
to you. even if they don't do it
perfectly.
When you get angry at the person who's
rebuking you, it is because you were
sorry that they're upset, but you are
not sorry about what you did yet. There
is no repentance in you until you can
accept the constructive or maybe not
perfect criticism. Think about that a
second. For godly sorrow produces
repentance
leading to salvation. So there must be
some sorrow for what you've done to lead
your heart to want to change. So it's
not to be regretted of. You don't regret
a change of heart if you really mean it.
And the sorrow of the world produces
death. I'm just I can't believe they're
making me stay in my room. That that is
produces death. That doesn't resolve
anything. Okay, does that make sense?
You're following along? So here's the So
one can have a change of heart and yet
their life wander away
and then they can wander back. You know
how I know that? Cuz I done it. You done
it. We all done it. I'm using really bad
English so you'll sure hear it. Every
last one of us done it.
Every baptized believer on the planet
has had the change of heart at
conversion.
And every baptized believer on the
planet has had a change maybe through
the wrong direction at times
and call we call it sin.
Okay, that's a reality. And sometimes
it's severe.
Doesn't mean that you didn't do it right
at the beginning. Sometimes you can have
a severe change of heart. Things can
happen in your life and you can go a
little crazy. I've been crazy so I know
that's true. James 5:es 19 and 20 says
this, "If anyone among you wonders from
the truth and someone turns him back,"
so he's turned away, but he was in the
truth and someone turns him back. He who
turns a sinner from the error of his way
will save a soul from death and cover a
multitude of sins. So, can you repent
and turn away later and others think
that you never repented? Yes.
Yes.
Does that mean that your baptism is not
valid? No.
But could it indicate that you weren't
sincere? Of course it could indicate
that. Of course. Because generally
speaking, if you have a change of heart,
your behavior begins to change. That's
general. Most people do. So when we go
through this, a change in belief and a
change in your heart and a change in
your conscience results usually in life
changes.
That's what happens most of the time.
Else the baptism, if there is no change
of heart, let let me put it like this.
olden days,
back before most of y'all were born,
okay?
Used to be a thing called gospel
meetings
that lasted more than three days,
lasted more than a week, lasted more
than two weeks, lasted more than three
weeks, lasted at many times six weeks
long. in a summer
and I wasn't there because I'm too
young. But
I have heard tale
of well we haven't had because they used
to have 30 to 50 baptisms at one of
these things.
Well, we haven't had any baptisms this
week. If nobody comes forward tonight,
we're going to close out the meeting.
And these were in little bitty towns
where there was nothing to do. There
were no street lights. There was no
stores open after 5:00 in the afternoon.
On Saturday, they rolled up the pavement
and nothing was open on Sunday. Does
anybody remember this?
Okay. So, what did teenagers have to do?
Y'all think you're bored?
You have no idea what boredom was. You
think, "Well, my my iPhone's broke. I
got nothing to do." They had nothing to
do. There was nothing going on. And it
was more than one time
somebody say, "Why don't you go forward
tonight cuz there's a pretty girl here
that I want to sit by. I want to talk
about it." Oh, yeah.
So, is it possible that somebody could
be baptized to sit next to a pretty
girl?
Maybe. No, I didn't. I'm not saying I
did that. I'm just saying, is that
possible?
Okay. So, could it make a mockery of
baptism? Could it be false? Yes, it is
possible. Absolutely. So, in that case,
they were never baptized.
They're not a part of the one baptism.
There was no change of heart. It wasn't
si sincere. It's a mockery of it. It's a
terrible thing actually, but you
understand it when they roll up the
pavement on Friday afternoon.
Okay, last question.
Is this a question? It would be
wonderful to hear a series of lessons
about the things God has prepared for
us. Yeah, that would be great.
I wish we had somebody to do that. Don't
y'all?
Yeah. I wish we had good preacher. All
right, here we go. Here's the answer to
that. Things God has prepared for us but
not yet revealed or totally unknown,
folks. I don't know what they're really
wanting here, so I'm just going to
answer that part. Uh 1 Corinthians 2:9,
"I has not seen nor ear heard, nor has
it entered into the heart of man the
things which God has prepared for those
who love him." Let's be honest, we don't
know much about heaven.
Got quiet, didn't it? Deuteronomy 29:29,
"The secret things belong to the Lord
our God, but those things which are
revealed belong to us."
If it's revealed, I don't know anything
about tomorrow. I know it's supposed to
be Monday, but it hadn't happened yet.
Lord may come tonight, right? Do y'all
know if he's coming tonight? I don't
either. John 16:12,
things to say to you. I have many things
to say to you, but you cannot bear them
now. There's sometimes when you're not
ready to hear some stuff, even if you
you're just not ready. I I mean, there
are things you as you get older, some of
you who are a little older, I can tell
you're a little older cuz there's white
stuff on your head. Some of you are a
little older, you know that you didn't
know 30 years ago, but you know, you
couldn't have learned it except what
you've been through.
You've been through some stuff these
kids don't know anything about. They
think they know everything about
everything. They know a lot more about
books than we did.
Smarter that way,
but life, not so much. And they don't
know about the hardness.
You think it's hard, young people,
buckle up. 2 Corinthians
12 and verse 4.
Caught up into paradise and heard
inexpressable words which is not lawful
for a man to utter. I don't have any
idea what that's talking about. I could
suck something out of my thumb, make you
feel better. But I'll be honest with
you, I don't know what he means by that.
I maybe stuff is talked about in heaven
you can't talk about anywhere else.
Maybe he learned something that she
wasn't supposed to tell anybody. I don't
actually know. Could be one or the
other. Could be something totally
different than that. Ephesians 2:7. In
the ages to come, he might show the
exceeding riches of his grace and his
kindness toward us in Christ Jesus. Is
that about the next world? I don't even
know that. That may be talking strictly
about this world. Or it could be talking
about the next. In either case, we're
going to learn more about his grace as
we go along. That's happened in my life,
and I bet it's happened in yours. In 1
John 3 and:e 2, it has not yet been
revealed what we shall be, but we know
that when he is revealed, we shall be
like him. I have no idea what I'm going
to look like when I get on the other
side. Somebody says, "Oh, yeah, we're
going to have we're going to wings.
We're going to be like angels." Yeah,
right. You don't know anything about it
in the morning. I do. You don't know if
you're going to glow. You going to look,
what color are you going to be? You got
nothing. We may be flashing lights for
all I know. We may be little balls of
specs. We may be nothing like that. We
may be totally in. I have nothing. I
think you're going to be able to see
people because of that Moses and Elijah
thing. Uh but but other than that, and
by the way, I don't know how they knew
who they were. They have name tags once
you get to heaven. I don't know.
Revelation 10 and verse 4, seven
thunders uttered their voices. And I was
about to write, but I heard a voice from
heaven saying to me, "Uh, uh-uh,
seal up the things which the seven
thunders utters, and do not write them."
So, here's what I mean about the
history, lessons like that, great. But
things that you want to know that are
prepared for us, we have no knowledge of
the things prepared for us to any
serious degree. We know that there's a
thing called heaven. We know that
there's a thing called the second
coming. We know that there's a thing
called eternal life. We know that
there's a thing called rewards. We know
some concepts. God hasn't given us
specifics. I bet there's a reason.
I bet there's a reason. So, this would
require though a survey. If you wanted a
series of lessons like this, this would
require a survey
from some kind of a timeline from the
beginning of the world to the end. It
would take months. You might remember I
did a series a few years ago on every
book of the Bible. I did 66 lessons
summarizing every book of the Bible in
the main lesson of the Bible. That's the
closest I'm going to come cuz I'm about
to ready to retires here. So that's not
happening. So just letting you know.
Okay, those are the questions tonight.
Chuck Swindoll,
I think these are great questions.
Be really good for us to pay attention
to this. So, this was for preachers to
be accountable. I think it works for all
of us. Take a look at these questions.
Have you been with a woman anywhere this
past week that might be seen as
compromising?
Gentlemen,
ladies,
two,
have any of your financial dealings
lacked integrity? Are you cheating on
anything?
You lying about your taxes.
You spending money on something you
shouldn't be spending your money on.
Those are good questions. I think three.
Have you exposed yourself to any
sexually explicit material this last
week or in the last year?
Just scan past it or did you stay on it
a little bit?
Four,
have you spent adequate time in Bible
Bible study and prayer?
If you say yes, I don't trust you.
What's adequate? Five, have you given
priority time to your family?
Is that more important than the other
things? your job.
Six,
have you fulfilled the mandates of your
calling? What do you think God wants you
to do with your life?
Are you trying to fulfill that?
Or have you never paid attention and
even thought about that God may have
called or put a stamp on your life? Say,
"Well, I understand preachers." No, no,
no. If he does it for me, back to that
point about being a respector, he's
doing it to you,
everybody. He's doing it to everybody or
he's not doing it to anybody.
What's your calling? Are you using it?
And the final one,
have you just lied to me?
Did you just lie in your head about what
was just asked? Did you did you make an
excuse for the answer you gave in your
head?
Those are good questions, I think. So,
answer the questions that are more
important to your soul
than you're thinking. If your answers
kind of upset you in any way, hey, we
need serious change. So, back to the
idea of repentance, I think there always
needs to be repentance going on. I I
don't believe that we repented when we
obeyed the gospel and that's the end of
repentance. I think if you repented when
you obeyed the gospel, you never stop
repenting.
It's a continual exercise
checking your heart
and sometimes really having to have a
serious talk with yourself.
If there's something that you need to
deal with a little more publicly that's
frightening,
we really don't want you to have to do
that. We'd prefer if you could to handle
it within yourself or the people around
you. But if you feel that we know
something or it might be true that we
know something and it doesn't look like
that we know you've changed, that's that
public confession thing. That's first
John chapter 1. Sure,
we will help you any way we can. If
you've never become a Christian,
yes, you got to believe in Jesus. Yes,
you got to confess him as your Lord and
Savior, but there's got to be that
change of heart. We don't want to
baptize you otherwise.
But if you need to come, we're all ears
and we're always available. Won't you
come while we stand and while we
