Let everybody have a second to
get to their seats.
Couple uh announcements um to get to get
started. Obviously, Brother Dwight
mentioned Stop and Hop. If you guys are
able to be a part of that, uh we would
really appreciate it. uh you know, a
good uh outreach
opportunity for for the community. Um
our trunk or treat has been going now
five or six years and we started that
around 150 people and we're up to about
800 uh for the trunk or treat. I think
800 to 900 came through last year or
Yeah, last year. The stop and hop is is
around about 100 to 150 people. And so,
but we get a lot of good feedback on
that, a lot of um, you know, good
opportunity to to to shake hands with
the community. You know, it's something
for them for free and they really they
really enjoy it. So, if you could be a
part of that, we'd really appreciate
that. If you guys have any questions,
feel free to, you know, grab Bethany or
I and we're happy to happy to talk a
little bit more about that.
uh just before before this uh Sister
Pride came up and mentioned
uh that the the lunch in on March 22nd
for Latch to leaders. The topic for the
debate is actually baptism. So kind of
goes, you know, in line with what we're
what we're looking at and studying here.
And you're going to get to hear both
sides of the uh the coin there. Is it
necessary for salvation? Is it not? and
you know uh the justification and so
really excited for that. There will be a
sign up to come at some point for the
lunch. I want to make sure we have
enough food. So please plan to join us
for that and uh support you know our our
children as their our children teens as
uh you know they're pursuing uh deeper
knowledge about God and about our
savior.
And then there was also a suggestion on
Wednesday night after last week's class
and I and I'd love to love to do this.
Uh there was a suggestion that several
of you guys right are are actually doing
what what Jesus called us to do in
Matthew 28 and you are going out and you
are evangelizing you are you know
teaching others and if you have
something that you're doing that you
would like to share uh whether it you
know just I don't technique or or
whatever you're doing that you would
like to share that you've done and if
you want to do it anonymously I would
love to you know each week just kind of
give a few examples of what some of our
brothers and sisters are doing to to
spread the good news. And so feel free
to write that down. You know, give it to
me, give it to Bethany. I'm sure our
elders or Rex would would be happy to to
take that on. But would just love to
give some, you know, firsthand,
I guess, ideas of of what others are
doing. I heard a couple. I won't I won't
share the one yet, but um if you can,
I'd love to hear some some ideas. So
last week we talked about relational
evangelism and we talked about the power
of your circle of influence and and I
want to remind you guys two things that
we talked about last week that that
several people told me were pretty
impactful, you know, for them. God has
placed people in your life uh for a
reason. God has put your circle of
influence around you for a reason. But I
want to look at it again a little bit
differently. God has placed you in their
lives for a reason.
And so
lost souls, we said this last week, lost
souls are already within reach. They
just need us to do what Jesus commanded
us to do, right? they that Matthew 28,
go out into the world, make disciples,
teaching them to to to follow everything
that I obey, baptizing them in the name
of the uh the the the son, the father,
and the holy spirit. That's not a
suggestion, right? That's something we
are called to do. Uh and and these these
lost souls that are within our reach,
they need us to do it now, right? They
don't need us to uh uh wait until we
feel like we know enough. They don't
need us to to wait until our life slows
down. They need us now. They don't need
us as a church to wait until all four of
our buildings are built. They need us
now.
Matthew 28 doesn't say when, you know,
all of your plans are finalized, go out
into the world and share the good news.
No, it says do it now. Jesus says, "All
authority has been given to me. go.
Not wait until it feels right. Not wait
until you've done what you've, you know,
said you were going to do. Go.
And so these these folks right within
your circle of influence, they need to
understand, they need to know the hope
that we have. They need to know the
peace that we have. They need to know
the joy uh that we have. And they need
to know that that can only be found in
the son of God. that can only be found
within Jesus. Any other peace uh uh joy
uh happiness that you find outside of
the son of God will not last. It will
eventually fade away. And so they need
to know that there is a sustainable hope
found within Jesus. And so we looked at
the circle of influence. We looked at,
you know, your family. We looked at your
friends. We looked at your neighbors. We
looked at your co-workers.
And we mentioned last week, we don't
have to go overseas to do the work of
the Lord. It's right here in our
backyard. It's right here in our
neighborhood. Uh we just need to be
intentional with the people that God has
placed in our life. And so today, we're
going to look at the credibility
of  uh the everyday disciple.
We mentioned last week that your circle
uh knows who you are.
Your circle knows if you're credible or
or not. And I want to look at the
definition here. Two different
definitions of of credible or
credibility. Uh Miriam Webster says that
credibility is offering reasonable
grounds for being believed or trusted.
So credibility is not about perfection,
right? Credibility is just about
authentic disciplehip. Uh it's it's when
others can say they can look at you and
say, "Hey, what they say about Jesus
seems real because I see it in their
lives. I see the impact that it has had
on their lives." I love uh what
Cambridge uh dictionary says. It says to
be believable, trustworthy, and worthy
of confidence.
You know, a reliable or a credible
person or source. It's honest. It's
reliable. uh and it's supported by
evidence or expertise.
And so that's where we're going with
this idea of the everyday disciple.
We are all walking examples. We are all
walking evidence of the change that
happens within us when we come to know
Jesus, when we place our faith in Jesus.
And so that's going to allow others to
accept the information that we're
sharing with them as valid and true.
I want to remind you again from the
statistic from last week. I haven't read
the book. I do plan on it, but it's Sean
Anderson living dangerous uh living
dangerously. and and and his uh study
world uh countrywide at least said that
in individuals were influenced to commit
their lives to Jesus by people who
modeled Jesus in their lives. And so
modeling Jesus, what does that sound
like? Sounds like disciplehip.
All we're asked to do is follow the
Lord, pursue him, and and this is going
to to happen.
And so when we let our love for God,
when we let our pursuit of Jesus
naturally flow into our conversations,
when that naturally flows into our
decisions, when that naturally flows
into our relationships, it's going to
make us credible, impactful disciples.
And so today, I want to look at three
ways uh that our credibility are going
to help us in our efforts to evangelize.
I apologize, I don't have a fancy
PowerPoint. Um, I've been really busy
lately. But first, credibility
cultivates confidence in the gospel. A
and before people evaluate your claims
about the gospel, they're going to
evaluate uh your life. They're going to
evaluate the life of the Christian. And
so, what we need to understand is that
our credibility, it begins with one
foundational truth.
And that foundational truth is the fact
that the gospel message has
fundamentally changed our lives.
It has changed our lives. It has changed
who we are. It has changed our identity.
Uh it doesn't just offer forgiveness. It
offers a new identity. In Ezekiel 36,
God is promising
uh that he is going to remove the heart
of stone uh from his people and he's
going to give a new heart and a new
spirit. uh he says he's going to put a
spirit within us that's going to cause
us to walk in his statutes.
And so what I love about the gospel
message is that the gospel message
fulfills that promise. The gospel
message changes our hearts
when we repent of our ways when we're
baptized and we pledge our allegiance to
Jesus. Uh if you have your Bibles, turn
to 2 Corinthians 5 17. We're going to
look at verses 17- 20.
And I want to read what Paul's saying
here to the uh to the Corinthians.
2 Corinthians 5:17
through 20. We may not read it all, but
he says in verse 17, "Therefore, if
anyone is in Christ, he is a new
creature. The old things passed away.
Behold, new things have come.
And Paul's points here, we're going to
stop here for the sake of time. Paul's
points here I is not that we've cleaned
ourselves up.
It's not that we dusted ourselves off.
We polished ourselves. Paul's point here
I it's not that we have slightly better
behavior.
Some people have asked me if in this
class if we're just going to talk about
morals and and ethics, and that's not
the point of this. uh uh his point is
that if we are in Christ Jesus, we have
been verse 17 made new in Christ. Verse
18, reconciled to God. Verse 19, given a
new standing before God. That's
righteousness. And and then verse 20, he
goes on to say that we've become
ambassadors for Christ. And so this
means now as Christians, as disciples,
our lives represent the king. Our lives
represent King Jesus. In in Colossians
1, Paul says that uh that God has
delivered us from the power of darkness
and conveyed us into the kingdom of the
son of his love. The gospel message is
not an improvement plan.
Right? The gospel message is kingdom
transfer.
We have been transferred at rescued from
this kingdom of darkness and sin and
death. and we have been transferred in
to the kingdom of uh his beloved son.
And so now in this kingdom, our
allegiance now belongs to the king.
Uh not only have we, you know, been
transferred uh in in in sense of of
kingdom into the kingdom of god. Paul
says in Romans 6 uh and verse 14 that
those who are led by the spirit are
children of God. And then he goes on to
say uh that in verse 16 that the spirit
will bear witness that we are children
of God. And if we are children of God
then we are heirs. And if we are uh
heirs then we are heirs of God and joint
hes with Christ.
And so this new identity that we have in
Jesus should change everything about us.
It changes how we live. It changes the
things that we want.
A and the credibility of the everyday
disciple begins uh with this reality
that we belong to Jesus that our
allegiance has changed that our identity
has changed and that our citizenship has
changed. And I want you to ask yourself
if if someone watched your life closely
for a month,
would they see evidence that your life
belongs to Jesus?
If they walked with you, they talked
with you, they sat and ate with you,
would they see evidence that your life
belongs to Jesus? That your decisions,
that your priorities, that your values
are shaped by a different king
and a different kingdom.
And I tell you, if if not, if you answer
that question, you say, you know, I
don't I don't really think so, then then
we need to uh do some deep reflection.
Because the reality is is that the
gospel message has changed our identity.
It's changed who we are. And that change
should be evident in the way that we
that we live. And when people see that
our identity truly belongs to Christ,
it's going to c uh cultivate confidence
in the message that we proclaim. And so
that leads us into the second point this
morning that credibility confirms the
change that Christ makes. And so if we
belong to the king, our our identity and
our allegiance or faithfulness,
uh it should become visible in our
lives. Uh the the effects of the gospel.
We mentioned last week the quote, I
don't remember who says it, right? But
preach the gospel if necessary. Use
words, right? I don't love that, but I
like the idea of what it's trying to get
to. Right? We can live out the effects
that the gospel has had on us. We can
live out the effects that the Holy
Spirit has had on us.
And it should reshape our lives in ways
that other people can see it. Our
visible transformation. And there's a
change. If you really think about it,
there's a change. I've seen the change
in my own life.
I'm sure you've seen the change in your
life. I'm sure you look around and
you've seen the change in the people's
lives around you. There is a change that
is noticeable and it confirms the
reality of the message that we're uh
proclaiming. Uh you can turn to Acts
chapter 4. I'm not going to read much of
the scripture, but in Acts chapter 4,
Peter and John uh were arrested and they
were they were standing before uh the
Jewish council and they were being
questioned about a man that they healed
back in the beginning of uh chapter 3.
And I love they're questioning him and
they, you know, uh by by what name or or
what power have you done this? And Peter
says in verse 10 of of Acts chapter 4,
he says, "Let it be known to you all
that by the name of Jesus Christ of Na
Nazareth, whom you crucified, who God
raised from the dead. By him, this man
stands here before you whole."
And you need to remember, right? This is
yes, Peter was a disciple. He walked
with Jesus. But this is the same Peter
that denied Jesus three times.
And I love in verse 13, right? It says
that the council saw their boldness.
He says that they they perceived that
they were uneducated. They perceived
that they were untrained men. But verse
13, what did they realize?
Says they realized they had been with
Jesus.
And the Jewish leaders, they marveled.
They marveled at the courage. They
marveled at their conviction. They
marveled at their confidence.
And these people weren't educated or
trained. They had simply spent time with
Jesus.
And so reflect a little bit.
Imagine the impact we can have if we
simply spent time with Jesus.
If we spent time in his word. If we
spent time uh in in the study of his
word. If we spent time in prayer, if we
spent time in disciplehip,
imagine the impact we would have. Just
like the Jewish council,
they say, "Man,
these people have been with Jesus."
People would realize uh that we've been
transformed by the power of the Holy
Spirit.
they would realize that something within
us has changed almost like we were given
a new heart, a new identity, a new life.
A and so each of us individually have
been transformed. We've been changed.
That change should be noticeable. But
what I love about this is that the
gospel message is not just about the
individual. It's also about the
community around it. If you go back to
Acts chapter 2,
we see that the gospel message doesn't
just transform people. It actually
transforms communities, it transforms
churches. And so, Acts chapter 2 gives a
snapshot of what the early church looked
like when the gospel takes root.
If you jump down into to verse uh 42,
it says, "They continued steadfastly to
the apostles doctrine and fellowship, to
the breaking of bread and to the
prayers."
And so these believers in the early
church, right, right after the day of
Pentecost, uh they were devoted to
truth.
They were devoted to community. They
were devoted to worship. And they were
devoted to prayer. And I've I've I'm
going to say this. I've really been
trying not to say this. Um I've wanted
to say it and I don't think I should,
but I'm going to. If you look at at at
our congregation, we're probably a body
of about 400 members, right? And if you
look I I left it over there but if you
look at I mean just simple simple things
as as attendance and you look at
body of 400 members we have I don't know
between 280 and 320 on a Sunday morning
right that number almost cuts in half
when it comes to Bible class on Sunday
mornings we lose so now we're at about
150 160 for Bible class then we go down
to you know about 100 120 on Sunday
nights and then we go down sometimes
we're subpar under a hundred on
Wednesday nights.
And and I'm not trying to sit up here
and say that that that uh attendance in
church saves you or an attendance at
church is what you know makes you right
and that we can earn our salvation by
coming to church. What I'm telling you
is that the early church was devoted to
these things. They were devoted to the
truth of God's word and they wanted to
hear it. They wanted to learn it. They
wanted it to transform them. They were
devoted to worship. They were uh devoted
to the community.
It's part of Ephesians 4. The reason we
come together is to build everybody up.
Go back to Hebrews 10:4 when it and 25
when it's talking about the need to come
together.
It's to stir up good works and love. And
so the early church we see was about the
community
a and they were about prayer. And we
know that the relationships within that
church were radically different than
than what we see today. And I understand
it's a different culture. I understand
it's different times. I understand they
walked everywhere. We have cars, right?
They have store. We have stores. They
didn't have stores. I get there are
differences.
But are we as a body of Christ devoted
to the truth of his work? Are we as a
body of Christ devoted to the worship of
him and the almighty father?
Are we as a body of Christ devoted to
fellowship? I didn't even bring up
fellowships. Bethany and I ran
fellowships for three years and we were
thankful. It was a successful event if
we had 60 people
in a church of 400
devoted to fellowship, devoted to being
with one another.
And they were devoted to prayer. Verse
44 goes on and says they had all things
in common. They sold their possessions.
They sold their goods. And they divided
them among all as anyone uh had need.
Right? This early church was generous.
This early church cared for one another.
Uh Paul, I believe it's Ephesians or um
I'm sorry, Galatians 6 talks about uh
carrying the burden for one another. You
can guarantee this early church carried
one another's burdens
and they lived as a true spiritual
family centered around God and what he
had done for them in Christ Jesus.
And what what was the result of all of
this? This is where I'm this is where
I'm getting to. We're going to wrap it
up at the end a little bit closer.
What was the result of all of this? The
Bible says, I believe verse 45 46 uh
that they they they continued, they they
praised God. They had favor with all of
the people. And what did the Lord do? He
added to the church daily those who were
being saved.
And so what what the people saw about
this early church is the people saw that
there was something different about
them. Uh they realized, right, these
weren't perfect people. They weren't
they weren't perfect disciples, but you
know what they had in common? They
followed a perfect savior.
A and by following that perfect savior,
they were transformed by a perfect
message.
And being transformed by that perfect
message made everybody around them
understand uh that there is a a a change
that happens with inside you. And if the
change happens with me and it happens
with you and it happens with you and it
happens with you and it happens with as
that change goes out our community
becomes different. Our congregation
becomes different and then we as the
body of Christ the hands and feet of
Jesus actually go out and make a
difference within the community.
And the transformation that that church
had uh confirmed the change that Christ
made. They had favor with all the people
and the Lord added to the church daily.
And I think too often we read Acts
chapter 2. I've been going to well at
least watching. We've gone to one or two
uh kind of evangelism workshops,
different things over the last few
years. And and and I feel like we we
read Acts chapter 2 as a history lesson,
right? We we read it and we think like,
oh man, those were the good old days,
right? We we look back. But the reality,
Acts chapter 2 is not a history lesson.
It's actually a picture of a church that
has been shaped by the gospel message.
And I think even today we should line
ourselves up and compare ourselves with
that Acts 2 church.
It's an example. It's a picture of what
we should look like uh today.
And so when when people walk into our
building here at Creekide or or when
they they interact with one of us out
there in, you know, quote unquote the
the real world, what should they see?
Uh they should see things that are
increasingly rare in today's world, in
today's day and age. Uh they should see
humility.
That's a tough one for me. But they
should see humility.
These are all tough. They should see
generosity,
right? And they should see not just how
we care for one another within the
confines of these walls, but they should
see that how we actually care. And I
love I don't believe Brother Jontee is
here this morning. I love the work that
he's doing and has been doing for
several years with our benevolence
program. And I'm really excited. We had
a chat at men's retreat. I'm really
excited to to with the impact ministry
to work with him and see how much uh you
know more we can serve our community.
They see forgiveness. That's another
hard one.
I, you know, you rub me the wrong way, I
hold on to things for a while. It's
going to take me a minute to get over
it. But they don't, they see
forgiveness. They see unity, but most of
all, they see genuine love. Right? In
John uh John 13:35, Jesus says that that
our love is the proof that we are his
disciples.
And so I want you to think about your
your circle of influence. Think about uh
when when people see your life, when
they see your marriage, when they see
your friendships, uh when they see the
body of Christ, when they see Creek
Side, uh do they see evidence that Jesus
actually changes people?
Do they see evidence that through your
disciplehip, through your following of
Jesus, through your pursuit of him?
Do they see that we're being
transformed?
Right? In Ezekiel 36, God promised a
spirit and we have a Holy Spirit, right?
Uh that is sanctifying us, that is that
is uh making us more and more like
Christ every day. Paul talks about it
all over uh his letters that we have to
walk in that spirit.
And do they see that
or when they, you know, look at you,
when they look at me, uh, when they look
at Creekide, do they just see, you know,
every other, uh, Joe Schmo that they
come across in the real world? And there
should be a difference because credible
disciplehip doesn't just claim
transformation.
I also didn't want to say this, but I'm
going to go ahead and say it. Could you
imagine if I stood up here today and I
told you guys that I found this new
diet, right? That uh you know, you do it
for a month and it's a miracle diet and
you're gonna lose all your weight and
I'm out here posting on Instagram. I'm
trying to get everybody to to come on.
You look at me, right?
Like, this dude's crazy. If he's really
on this diet, he wouldn't he wouldn't be
as big as he is, right?
So, if we go out and we proclaim a
message that, hey, Jesus Christ saves,
Jesus Christ changes us and we're not
changed,
the world's going to look at us like
we're crazy,
then nothing really happened. And so,
the message doesn't line up with the
evidence.
Credible disciplehip doesn't just claim
transformation, it displays it. The
gospel message changes our life. It it
it it the change becomes visible. People
begin to notice and then they start to
ask questions. Have you guys ever had
that?
Have you had somebody come up to you,
whether it be at work or a family
member, maybe somebody you don't see
that often, a and they actually come up
and and they start to ask, "Hey, there's
something different about you. What is
it?"
They may not understand everything about
the gospel. They may not understand
everything about the Old Testament and
the New Testament and the geography uh
the the the the Mosaic law, the
sacrificial system. They may not
understand any of that, but they can see
that something has taken place inside of
you.
And they begin to wonder why. What do
they see? How does how does this change
happen? They see patience where there
used to be anger.
I become a lot more patient. Bethany
told me last week I joked about um
wanting to punch somebody, right? And um
I told her I was like, "Well, if we
surveyed the the group, more people than
not would probably also want to feel
like they uh could punch somebody,
right?" But but
the go the gospel has changed me. The
spirit has changed me. I'm more patient
than I used to be. I don't fly off the
handle like I used to. I don't get as
angry. I let things slide a little bit
more than I used to. Right? And so they
see patience where there used to be
anger. They see humility where there
used to be pride.
They see forgiveness where there used to
be bitterness.
And if the message has changed you, they
see generosity where there used to be
greed and selfishness. And so they
become curious. They want to know how
did this change happen?
What? Who? How? uh could there be such a
drastic change in your life?
And so what that does is it opens uh
doors for conversations
uh about Jesus. And so when our
credibility, it not only cultivates
confidence in the message, our lives
will confirm uh through our everyday
disciplehip, our lives will confirm uh
the real change that Christ makes. and
they're going to start to ask questions,
which takes me into the uh the last
point is that credibility creates
conversations about Christ. We've Sunday
nights doing the Q&amp;A, we've used this
verse over and over again. Um
um
somebody made a joke about we should
have it memorized by now, not even need
the Bible, right? Because we've we've
quoted it so often. But in 1 Peter 3 uh
verse 15, Peter is saying, "Sanctify the
Lord God in your hearts. Always be ready
to give a defense to everyone who asks
you a reason for the hope that is in
you. And what I love about this is that
Peter is actually, excuse me, Peter is
assuming, right, that people are going
to ask.
And why would he assume that people are
going to ask?
It's because they actually see something
different. If we responded to situations
the way the rest of the world responded
to situations, they're not going to ask
you what's different about you.
If we treated, you know, our wives the
same way that that the rest of the world
treats their wives, they're not going to
notice that something's different about
you.
If we, you know, held on to all of our
monies, and I'm not saying you shouldn't
save and and and, you know, be
responsible, right? But if we held on to
everything and we didn't give a lick to
anybody, they're not going to notice
that there's anything different about
you. But Peter is saying, right, that
that they realize something's different
and they're actually going to ask. And
so when they ask, you need to be ready
to give a defense or an answer for the
hope that is within you. And and in 1
Peter 3, right, the context of this is
is suffering. uh right for righteousness
sake it it's uh he goes on to say I
think in end of 15 or 16 that that when
you know they defame you as evildoers
when they revile you revile your good
conduct he actually says when you suffer
for righteousness sake you are blessed
that in and of itself
is completely opposite to this world
everybody is going to go through
suffering I have a whole sermon on this
is going to go through suffering right
Not everybody is going to go through
persecution. That's two different
things. So, so when we suffer, right,
how we respond to the suffering actually
says something about us
and it makes people uh interested. If
you go back to verse 8, it says, you
know, uh do not not returning evil for
evil or reviling for reviling, but do
what? How do you respond?
With blessing.
And so, how how do I do that? How do I
get, you know, shorted at work and
respond with blessing?
How do I let somebody treat me terribly
and respond with blessing?
My answer I is is through the Holy
Spirit helping me, guiding me, walking
in the spirit. But what is your answer?
And how are you going to answer if you
really are different and people start to
ask questions? How h how are you going
to answer?
I've placed my faith in Jesus. I've been
baptized in his name. I've received the
gift of the Holy Spirit. And that Holy
Spirit helps me. It helps me walk
differently. It helps me align myself
with his word. And it helps me treat
others uh differently. And this opens
the door to talk to people about Jesus.
In Acts chapter 16, uh Paul and Silas,
they're they're beaten. uh they're
thrown into prison. And this is kind of
in line with with what we were saying
there in 1 Peter 3 in Acts chapter 16.
When they're when they're thrown in
prison, how do they respond?
What does the Bible say they do?
They were praying and they were singing
hymns to God. And yes, an earthquake,
you know, comes and and and the jailer
uh you know, he's about to about to end
his own life because he's thought he's
lost lost all the captives. And um
Paul stops them, right? Hey, don't do
that. We're all here. That's different
in itself, right? If I'm in jail and
something crazy happens and the door
opens, I'm gone. I'm out of there,
right? No. Paul said, "Hey, no, you know
what? I'm going to stay here. I'm in I'm
going to align myself with God's will.
I'm going to stay here. Sir, we're all
still here." And so the jailer, what
does he do?
He says, "What must I do to be saved?"
And so their credibility of the message
that they proclaimed, the effects that
that message had on their lives actually
created uh the conversation, the way
they responded to their suffering made
the jailer curious about what uh about
the God that they served.
And then what happens to the jailer and
his family?
They heard the message and they were
saved. him and his household.
And so the reality is guys is that most
uh presentations of the gospel uh or
sorry most spiritual conversations don't
start with presentations about the
gospel. They don't start with uh
yes uh they don't start with booklets.
Okay?
They they don't start with uh with
handouts, right?
Most spiritual conversations just begin
with curiosity. People
notice the peace that you have in
difficult circumstances
and they want to know, hey man, how are
you how are you handling that and being
so calm and so strong? Uh they notice
they notice and you could do this a lot
here. They notice the patience that you
show difficult people.
how how do you how do you take this a
and still show kindness and love? And
then they notice, you know, the kindness
that you show uh when when someone
responds to you harshly. And this is one
that has happened to me. Uh me and a
co-orker, we were at work and and we got
absolutely berated uh by our manager. It
was a pretty big deal. Uh we messed
something up. We got we got bered by our
manager, my coworker. um you know,
responded back uh very quickly, loudly,
curse words. Um and I just sat there and
I took it. I was wrong.
Maybe I didn't deserve to be cussed at.
Maybe I didn't deserve to be chewed out
publicly the way that, you know, my
manager had chosen to do it, but I was
wrong. And so, a couple hours later
after lunch, my co-orker cooled off. He
comes back and um he says, "How how did
you just sit there and take that
They're like, "Yes, we were wrong, but
we didn't deserve that."
And I had a chance to explain to them
where that power comes from. It's not my
might. It's not my might because
everything in me wanted to do more than
just go back with words, right?
It's not by my might. And I got to
explain to my coworker how I can have
that self-control.
And so eventually, right, this is
exactly what happens. Hey, why are you
like that? How are you like that? How do
you stay calm in situations like this
and this is the one that I love. Um I
actually got this just last week. Uh my
it was my birthday last Wednesday. We
had a new hire. I was onboarding them.
You know, we took him out to lunch, but
Tuesday night to Wednesday uh at church,
we were fasting. And so we went to
Capitol Grill.
Okay. I've never been there in my life.
um it was on the company took everything
in me not to just say hey you know what
I'll fast tomorrow right but I actually
got to and and and people ask hey why
are you why are you fast I didn't go
around telling everybody hey I'm fasting
today I'm not going to eat with you
right we sit down and hey why are you
not eating Chaz this is Capitol Grill
like what are you doing you've never
been here
and I got to explain to them what you
know we as a church had committed to why
we were doing it why we were fasting why
we were praying what we were praying for
and one of them several of them right
I've told you I have phenomenal
co-workers who are all of of of the
faith um but one of them asked me why is
that so important to you it's your
birthday
I said I made a commitment I'm going
through this with my church family and
it's about the community around us and
we want to actually go out and and make
changes in the community
and they want to know why does it matter
so much to you.
And if you go back right to the first
part of this lesson, understanding your
new identity in Christ, Ephesians 2 sums
this up so perfectly.
Votam says, right, you don't you don't
throw um you know um
a life vest, right, um to dead people,
right? We were we were dead in our
trespasses and in our sin. Dead.
We were captivated by the power of
darkness. Captivated by sin.
And through Jesus, God has conquered
that. And through my faith in Jesus,
I've been transferred from that uh
kingdom of darkness and into the kingdom
of righteousness, the kingdom of God
through the power of Jesus, through the
sacrifice of Jesus. And if I really
realize who I was before Jesus,
I couldn't stop talking about who I am
now in Jesus.
And so I  want you again
to think about your circle of influence.
We'll wrap up here. Think about your
circle of influence. Are you living in
ways that are making people curious
about Jesus?
And then secondly, are you ready when
the question comes?
Right? And and let me tell you, if you
start living a transformed life simply
just following Jesus and and doing what
he says as a disciple, those questions
are going to come. I'm sure plenty of
you have had them in your life.
I'm sure you've you've had them, but
they're going to come and we need to be
ready to answer them. So, I want to step
back briefly uh and look at what we've
covered this morning, right? Our new
identity in Christ gives credibility uh
to the message, living out in that
identity. Our transformed lives confirm
the power of the message and then
eventually this transformation opens
opportunities for conversations uh about
Jesus. But I want to be very very clear
here. Um
the
we need to understand something. Our
credibility is very important. Our
disciplehip uh is very important. But it
is not the power of the gospel.
It is not the power of salvation. Ro uh
Paul says in Romans 1, right? For I'm
not ashamed for the power of the gospel,
for it is the power of God uh for
salvation. The power does not come from
us.
The good news of Jesus, his life, his
death, his resurrection, right? That is
what brings salvation.
It's not us living lives that that that
uh give credibility to the message.
That's not what saves.
It is the power of God through Christ
Jesus uh that saves. Um another step,
right? It's not our job to change
someone's heart. And we should get a
little bit of relief in this, right?
It's not our job to change somebody's
heart, right? It's really not our job to
convince uh people. We can't force
someone to believe.
That work belongs to God and God alone.
Uh Jesus makes it very clear in John
16:8. He tells us that conviction is the
work of the Holy Spirit.
Right? So, so I think too often we we
get we get our job and God's job mixed
up a and we think it's on us to con
convict people to to to persuade them to
to get them to to come to know Jesus.
That's not our job.
That's God's job
and it's done through the work of the
Holy Spirit to convict it. But guess
what? Guess what is our job? Our job is
to remove the obstacles
that keep people uh from from wanting to
know more. And in our pursuit, our
everyday disciplehip, right, we can
remove these unnecessary obstacles uh to
the gospel. And I want us to think,
imagine if every single one of us uh
this week lived in this manner, not
perfectly. We couldn't achieve
perfection, right? I've said it before.
If one of us could achieve perfection,
we wouldn't have needed, right? Jesus.
We could have just sacrificed one of us.
It's not about perfection. It's about
genuiness and it's about intentionality.
And imagine if every single one of us
lived that way. Imagine if every single
one of us lived lives that were truly
shaped by Christ.
Imagine if every single one of us uh had
homes that are truly shaped by Christ
and our friendships and our
relationships were truly shaped by
Christ. over time, right? Uh that
credibility is going to open countless
doors for the gospel. And what Peter
tells us in in in 1 Peter chapter 3 is
that we just need to be ready to give an
answer for the hope that is within us.
And so last week, a little bit of
homework. We're a minute over. I
apologize. I gave you like we were
praying for uh our circle of influence.
What I want to ask you to do this week,
and I'm I'm doing it along with you. Um,
this week, our homework, I want you to
to step back and do a reflection of your
life.
And I want you to look at one area of
your find one area of your disciplehip
that you would like to strengthen. And
if you're not sure where to start,
right, uh what I've asked myself and ask
you to ask yourself is what area of my
life is affecting my credibility with
others?
What area of my life do my actions and
the message that I'm preaching not not
line up together? That's going to help
you identify at least one area uh where
we can uh shape our credibility a little
bit better. And then lastly, uh, and
we're going to talk about this next week
with the lesson on visibility, be
intentional about letting your light
shine this week. Uh, be intentional
about letting your light uh, be visible.
Look for moments uh, to intentionally
let your uh, light shine. And we're
going to look at Matthew 5 next week.
Uh, but why do we let the light shine?
So that they will see our good works and
do what? Glorify us.
No, glorify the father in heaven. So, be
intentional on that this week. Uh let's
pray and then I got one more little
announcement request.
Holy father, we uh Lord, we just love
you so much. We're so grateful uh for
this body of believers uh who have come
together, Father, that just want to know
a little bit more about you. Father,
help us to be hungry uh for you. Help us
to be hungry uh to know more of you.
help us to uh put aside the the ideas
that we have of you and and pursue the
truth of of who you really are. And
Father, we know that we could never uh
fully understand it and comprehend it.
But Father, just please help us to never
get tired of trying to come to know you
even better,
Father. and in in our efforts to to know
you better, to know Jesus better. Uh,
Father, help our efforts uh to do that
overflow and then to let others see you
through us.
Father, we're grateful for Jesus. We're
thankful uh for the gift of the Holy
Spirit that helps us. Father, we're
thankful for the new heart that you have
put inside of us. We're we're thankful
because this is so opposite of
everything we want to do.
And so we're thankful that not only did
you give us Jesus, you gave us the
spirit to help us walk in line with your
will to help us follow Jesus, follow the
path of Jesus.
And Father, we ask that you will help us
in that. Father, please be with us as a
congregation. Help us to to see the the
urgency of the need to go out and and
share the good news with others. Uh but
father please help us to be blessed by
by not just these lessons uh but the
rest of the lessons to come. Help us to
be equipped and to feel comfortable and
to feel confident uh uh father but help
us to place uh our trust in you
and and to see that that we may plant
the seeds father but it's you that are
watering it. It's you that are giving
the increase. It's you that are going to
to to grow this church uh in numbers and
in faith and in love.
So, Father, please help us to do our
part. Please help us to to go out into
the world to make disciples, to teach
them uh what Jesus has commanded us. Uh
Father, but help us to be good
representations of of that that message.
Help us to actually follow the commands
that Jesus commanded us. And Father, we
you know we need your help in that. And
so we ask you now to please bless us.
Bless us in this study. Bless us in our
our walk with Jesus. And please give us
opportunities to to let other people
know more about you and then courage and
boldness to actually speak up and tell
them what makes us different.
again. Father, we love you so much.
We're so grateful for all that you've
done for us. And it's in Christ's name
we pray. Amen.
