So, I want to start with a story. There
was a a Sunday morning uh that an old
cowboy entered a church uh just before
services were to begin. He came in, his
his clothes were spotless. Um you know,
looked very nice, but he wore jeans, a
denim shirt, uh boots that were very
worn and ragged. Um so, if you're having
trouble picturing it, just kind of
picture what Scott wears typically. Um
so, that's what this gentleman looked
like. So, uh, in his hand he had a a
worn out hat and an equally worn out
Bible. Church he entered was in a very
upscale exclusive part of the city. Uh,
it was the largest and most beautiful
church that the old cowboy had ever
seen. The people of the congregation
were all dressed up, expensive clothes,
suits, three-piece suits, accessories.
So, the cowboy came in, he took a seat,
and others actually moved away from him.
No one greeted to him, greeted him,
spoke to him, welcomed him. They were
all appalled at his appearance and
didn't even attempt to hide it. So, as
the old cowboy was leaving the church,
preacher approached him and asked the
cowboy to do him a favor. Hey, before
you come back in here next time, why
don't you have a talk with God and ask
him what he thinks would be appropriate
attire for worship? The old cowboy
looked back and he just assured the
preacher that he would do it. You know,
sounds good. Not a problem. So the next
Sunday he showed back up for the
services wearing the same ragged jeans,
same shirt, same boots, same hat. And
once again, he was completely shunned
and completely ignored. Preacher
approached him. The man said, "I I
thought I asked you to speak to God
before you came back to church looking
like this." "Well, I did," said the
cowboy. "Well, if you spoke to God, what
did he tell you the proper attire should
be for worshiping in here?" asked the
preacher. Well, sir, God told me that he
didn't have a clue what I should wear
here. He said he'd never been in this
church.
Every Sunday, right, we go through our
mission statement, right, we're a group
of believers dedicated to worshiping God
the Father and Jesus Christ the Son.
But do we actually put the time in each
week to really dwell on that, to think
about what that means? Or has it just
become something that we've just kind of
blindly heard and say because, you know,
it's church?
Are we too caught up in appearances or
what others might think about us that we
have lost the true purpose of our life,
worshiping God? Have we become so
ingrained and so conformed to our
culture that worship is something that
merely takes place on Sundays or even
further for some maybe just on major
Christian holidays.
Tonight I want to look at three truths
about God and how that should produce in
us nothing short of worship. So uh if
you're taking notes uh the first point
this evening is God is jealous of
worship. So we ought to worship in
assembly.
Again, that is God is jealous of
worship. So we ought to worship in
assembly. If you have your Bibles and
you want to open to Exodus 34 and 14,
Exodus 34:14,
the Lord speaking to Moses, for you
shall not worship any other god, for the
Lord whose name is jealous is a jealous
God.
So we can see that God is jealous for
our worship, right? And this isn't in
the way that you and I think of
jealousy. Uh which typically falls more
so to an idea I think of covetousness,
right? That we we we're jealous of
something so we wish for someone not to
have and for us to. But rather this is a
divine jealousness that God has. He does
not wish that we should worship any
other god before him. no idols, money,
fame, fortune, material things, anything
else that would take the place of number
one of God. He doesn't want us following
after that because he knows what the
outcome of following after those things
are. So, we're called to worship in
church, right? We're called to worship
in an assembly. We'll take a look at uh
some verses that outline that. If you
want to turn to Colossians chapter 3 and
verse 16, all of these you you should be
pretty familiar with or have heard at
some point. Uh Colossians chapter 3
and:e 16. Let the word of Christ richly
dwell within you with all wisdom and
teaching and admonishing one another
with psalms and hymns and spiritual
songs, singing with thankfulness in your
heart to God. Singing 2 Timothy 2 and
verse 8.
Therefore, I want the men in every place
to pray, lifting up holy hands without
wrath and dissension.
Pray. Acts 20 and verse 7. Again, that's
Acts 20 and verse 7. On the first day of
the week, when we gathered together to
break bread, Paul began talking to them,
intending to leave the next day, he
prolonged his message until midnight.
So, I hope you guys didn't have any
plans. um break communion, breaking
bread. 1 Corinthians chapter 9 and verse
7.
1 Corinthians 9 and:e 7 it says, "Each
one must do just as he has purposed in
his heart, not grudgingly or under
compulsion, for God loves a cheerful
giver." Right? Contribution or giving.
And then Romans chapter 10 verses 13 and
14.
Romans 10:13-14.
For whoever will call on the name of the
Lord will be saved. How then will they
call on him whom they have not believed?
How will they believe in him who they
have not heard? And how will they hear
without a preacher? Right? So teaching
or or or professing of the word of God.
So there we have our Sunday, right? We
come here every Sunday and we sing, we
pray, we have communion, we give, and
then we listen to a lesson. We listen to
the word of God being spoken uh to us.
And there's many other verses that speak
to these uh different attributes or
components of worship.
But it's not just the fact that we're
here doing it, but what is the attitude
and the heart that we have while doing
it, right? We we come here to sing, but
are are there times where we're not? You
know, are is God not worthy enough to
for us to lift up our voice in song? Or
are we too prideful? Or, you know, maybe
we're afraid of what other people might
think that we sound like, or
we just don't like to sing very much.
But then at the same time, we sing out
to our favorite song in the car or we
sing out loud in the shower at home or
maybe we we sing aloud with friends.
God wills and desires that we sing here
with one another.
Are we too
out of it to pray, right? Or do we not
is it a waste of time to us? Does it
not, you know, he's not listening
anyway? Is that our mentality when we
when we go to God in prayer? Do we sit
here and let our mind wander to h what's
on the menu for lunch or what do I have
coming up this week when we're trying to
lift up our brothers and sisters in
prayer? But then at the same time,
right, we'll wish upon a star or we'll
look for any man-made avenue that will
lead to some kind of answer for whatever
hardship it is that we're going through.
Right? God desires conversation with us.
God desires that we lay our burdens on
him through prayer. Is he not worthy
enough for us to show up on a Sunday
night or a Wednesday night or to stay
for our Bible classes?
But then at the same time, we have time
for the sports game or to go to brunch
with one another or to sleep in or go
grocery shopping or whatever else it
might be that can fill up that time. He
desires that we meet together and he
desires that we have unity, right? So
much so that Jesus prayed for it for
those who follow him.
So we can see, right, we're called to
sing. We're called to pray. We're called
to give. We're called to commune with
one another. And we're called to have a
period of learning and of teaching. And
doing this and doing these things not
just separately, but doing it together
in this setting encourages one another,
right? And it brings forth the unity
that Jesus prayed for for his disciples
and for all those who will follow him.
This is what we should do to worship God
week in and week out. And it goes more
than just simply reciting the words,
right? You know, we we can sit here and
sing, but if our hearts aren't in it,
what difference does that make us than
the instruments, right? We can sit here
and listen to the words that are being
prayed, but if we don't believe it, what
difference is that making in our lives?
Our hearts need to be oriented to God in
our worship here.
So Jesus says to the Pharisees, right,
the Jewish leaders of the day in Matthew
15:7-9, you hypocrites, rightly did
Isaiah prophesy to you. This people
honors me with their lips, but their
heart is far from me. But in vain do
they worship me, teaching as doctrines
the precepts of men.
I think we should ask ourselves, would
Jesus recite those words here?
Is that something that we would hear if
he stepped into these walls
that with your words you honor me but
your hearts are far from me? And then
further from that, would he flip tables?
Right? like he did in the temple because
they were taking what was meant to be a
house of prayer, a house of worship, and
using it for something other than what
it was designed for.
We come here week in and week out,
multiple times a week to worship. That
is our purpose of being here in these
walls at this place is to worship. And
our hearts should be a constant
reflection of that fact.
But from there leading into point two,
God is worthy of worship, so we ought to
worship in thought.
And God is worthy of worship, so we
ought to worship in thought. Our worship
doesn't stop when we step out from here
tonight.
Doesn't stop when we step out of here on
a Wednesday night or on a Sunday
morning.
So, I want to give a quick kind of
overarching
theme of the what the word worthy means,
and you'll see when we get to point uh
point number three, but this idea of of
being worthy kind of speaks to like an
an inherent value that something or
someone possesses, right? So, it's
something innate.
I don't really think there's anything
better to uh to show this than Genesis 1
and verse one. In the beginning, God
created the heavens and the earth. God
is creator, right? And if you continue
through that chapter, spoiler alert, he
created everything, not just the heavens
and the earth.
That alone shows the worthiness, right?
The innate value of God to be worshiped.
He's creator of all. He created you. He
created me. Everything we see,
everything we touch, the things that we
don't see, he created.
Some version of a Buddha says the mind
is everything. What you think you
become. Right? I I think that's an an
interesting concept. But we see that in
our thoughts about God,
right? And I think I think this this
goes to show the importance of the the
lessons that we had in God has a name
and this idea that you will become like
the God that you worship. If the God
that you worship is judgmental and he's
angry and he's only full of wrath,
more than likely you're going to be
somebody who's judgmental and angry and
full of wrath. And on the flip side, if
you worship a God who is loving and
gracious and kind, you're more likely to
be loving and gracious and kind and
peaceable and and these attributes. But
it doesn't matter what you and I think
about what God is. What matters is what
God says that he is, right? And that we
can only find in his scripture where he
outlines for us, this is who I am,
right? And you can see who I am in my
son. And so through study and through
learning and from there, we then can
orient ourselves to say, okay, this is
who God truly is and how we should then
mimic our lives after that. like was
just read Romans uh 12 and verse two.
And do not be conformed to this world,
but be transformed by the renewing of
your mind so that you may prove what the
will of God is. That which is good and
acceptable and perfect. And what I find
so interesting about this verse, right,
and it's not the only one. Um Paul
echoes this uh this same idea over and
over again, but this idea of the renewal
of the mind, right? transformation that
comes through renewing of the mind. And
what's so interesting is that if you
look to the world, if you look to those
outside, right, the answer to elevating
ourselves or the answer to spirituality
is get out of your mind. Get out of your
head, right? The mind is a stumbling
block to where you can be. So we need to
remove it. And that's done through
various, you know, types of meditations,
rituals, drugs, alcohol, you know, fill
in the blank of whatever it is that can
get you outside of your mind and you
found the answer to reaching the divine
or the spiritual. But the Bible says the
exact opposite, right? Paul teaches it's
not getting out of your mind. It's not
removing the mind, but rather renewing
the mind. And so orienting our mind to
worship, orienting our mind to God, to
Christ, to things above,
not the things on the earth.
Ephesians chapter 4,
if you want to write down 17- 24 for the
sake of time, uh we'll just take a look
starting at verse 20, but Ephesians 4,
starting in verse verse 20 through 24.
But you did not learn Christ in this
way. If indeed you have heard him and
have been taught in him, just as the
truth is in Jesus, that in reference to
your former manner of life, you lay
aside the old self, which is being
corrupted in accordance with lusts and
deceit, and that you be renewed in the
spirit of your mind, and put on the new
self, which is in the likeness of God,
has been created in righteousness and
holiness of the truth. Right? So again
this idea of renewing of the mind.
Romans chapter 1 and verse 28
 and this is the
importance of the renewing of our mind
and worshiping and thinking on the
heavenly things.
Romans chapter 1 and verse 28. And just
as they did not see fit to acknowledge
God any longer, God gave them over to a
depraved mind to do those things which
are not proper. So we can see when when
we decide that it doesn't really matter
what goes on the rest of the week,
right? It doesn't really matter where my
head is at whenever I'm not in church or
maybe even while I'm here at church.
If we don't think of God, if we cast him
out and put him to the side,
there's an example here of God allowing
the human side of the mind to take over,
this depraved mind to take over. And if
you continue reading through the rest of
that chapter, you'll see the things of
which uh these folks took part of.
But we need to acknowledge him, right?
Our thoughts need to acknowledge him. 2
Corinthians another example 2
Corinthians chapter 10 and verse 5
kind of a response to what we can do
here 2 Corinthians chapter 10 and verse
5 it says we are destroying speculations
and every lofty thing raised up against
the knowledge of God and we are taking
every thought captive to the obedience
of Christ.
This one's tough, right? Are we taking
our thoughts captive?
Cuz I don't know about you, but like I
don't think about what I think about. It
just kind of comes to you, right? The
thoughts are just there. It's not like I
was trying to Sometimes, sure, you're
trying to think of something, but
sometimes you're just sitting there and
something pops in your head and you're
like, "Where did that come from? I have
no idea why that's there."
But then, do we allow that to sit?
Right? Do do we allow the intrusive
thoughts, the judgmental, the the
harmful, the unwanted thoughts that
sometimes just come into our head? Do we
allow them to sit with us? Do we allow
them to fester in our mind to pull us
away from what we really should be
focusing on? Or do we take them captive?
Right? Do we put them and bind them in
shackles and bring them before the feet
of God and say, "God, I need your help
with this." Right?
change change my mind to things that are
focused on you on things above, right?
Not on what's going on here, not on the
anxieties that the world is trying to
throw at me, not on the whatever it may
be, right? Cuz there's all kind if you
go on to social media, there's all kinds
of things that can flood your mind that
will bring you right back down here to
earth, right? but staying connected to
the word and connected to God in prayer
and leaving these thoughts binded at the
feet of Jesus.
Colossians 3:1 and 2.
Again, Colossians 3:es
1 and 2.
Therefore, if you have been raised up
with Christ, keep seeking the things
above where Christ is seated at the
right hand of God. Set your mind on
things above, not on things that are on
the earth.
That's where our attention is to be
focused. We are to focus on the heavenly
things, the eternal things, and not on
the trials and the issues that are here
on earth. Right? And through that, every
day, every waking moment, we should be
turning our thoughts and our attention
to worship and uh of God.
Final point this evening is point number
three. God is deserving of worship.
So we ought to worship in a faithful
life.
And that is God is deserving of worship.
So we ought to worship in a faithful
life. And this is where I think the
overarching theme is, right? A life
filled with worship.
It's not doesn't have time stamps on it,
right? Every waking moment should be a
life leading to worship and glory and
honor and praise of God. So, right, I
gave you worthy because worthy and
deserving it's like, well, what's the
big difference? Kind of minute
difference, but there is one. So, worthy
we have this idea of an inherent value.
Um whereas with deserving
it's more focuses on earning something
through actions. Right? So quick recap
of the Bible here for you kind of given
in the in the tune of uh Romans.
God has a people. He gives a law, right?
The purpose of this law is to be a tutor
to teach. So the law comes in and shows
us that we sin, right? We fall short of
that law or the Jews fell short of that
law. They didn't attain to the
perfection of the rules that were set by
the the uh law that God gave and his
commandments. So chose a specific group
that was the Israelites. They were
chosen based off a covenant made with
Abraham. And through that covenant and
through that people would come Christ,
Jesus. and through him we would have
eternal life. But he also gave before
Jesus that perfect law, right? And this
law was based off of God's morals and
God's commandments and his uh his nature
and and what he deemed to be what the
people needed to follow. Then on the
other hand, you have the Gentiles,
otherwise known as all the other
nations. And those people made laws, but
their laws differed in that their laws
were based off of the morals of the men
who were creating those laws. And so,
sleep with whoever you want, right? Eat
whatever you want, go wherever you want,
enslave whoever you want, and whatever
other law that you could think of that
goes contradictory to whatever God said
in his. But the thing is is that it was
imperative that there was this distinct
difference, right? It was extremely
important that we could see a divide in
the holy and righteous and perfect law
of God that was given to the Israelites
and the man-made laws that were created
by all these different groups of people
otherwise known as the Gentiles. And the
importance was we needed to see the
divide between us and God.
And then what it ultimately did in
recognizing this divide was not really
divide the people. It divided the people
from God, but it didn't really divide
the Gentiles and the Jews that much, but
rather it showed we're all on the same
playing field in that we all need
saving. We all need a savior.
Congratulations, you've been given the
law, but guess what? You couldn't uphold
it. Congratulations. you didn't have the
law and you need saving because
there's no way for you to attain to it.
And so through that, we now have Christ
who was sin, who on behalf of all
people, Jews and Gentiles alike,
sacrificed himself, died on a cross, was
raised again, so that through him and
through his keeping and perfecting of
the law, we might all have the
opportunity to come to God, to be
reconciled to the Father, and to be
justified before a righteous and just
God because of the act of that one
perfect Man,
if that's not deserving of worship,
I don't know what is
it.
It's not until we truly really
understand
and aim to grasp the gravity of what God
did at the cross.
And it can be difficult sometimes.
We're what 2026 2000 and plus years post
the fact
I didn't see them right I don't sure I
see videos of people who have gone and I
can see things from that time period but
I don't understand what it was like
right I don't understand what the the
ancient world was like I don't
understand outside of you know maybe
passion of the Christ the brutality
of crucifixion. I can try to imagine it,
but we're blessed to not have seen
anything like that here.
But through studying and through seeing
and through searching, it's imperative
that we understand the gravity and the
weight of what happened and what God did
in action for his people. And when we
come to that understanding,
you can't not worship. You can't not
fall at his feet and just thank him and
give him all the glory and honor and
praise because ultimately
what did I do to deserve it?
Right? I messed up. I sinned.
And then whenever I said I'm sorry for
that sin, I went and I sinned again. And
I keep doing that every single day until
eventually you put me in the ground.
I don't deserve what he did for me.
&gt;&gt; You don't deserve what he did for you.
But he loved you enough that he did it.
And through that, he asks for really
something simple. That we faithfully
live a life just trying our best to
follow and obey his son.
So let's take a look here at Hebrews 11
and verse 6.
Hebrews 11 and verse 6.
And without faith it is impossible to
please him. For he who comes to God must
believe that he is and that he is a
rewarder of those who seek him. Right?
Are we seeking him every day? Every
waking moment. Are we seeking God?
Ephesians chapter 2:es 1-9
again that is Ephesians chapter 2 1-9
and you were dead in your trespasses and
sin in which you formerly walked
according to the course of this world
according to the prince of the power of
the air of the spirit that is now
working in the sons of disobedience
among them we too all formerly lived in
the lusts of the flesh indulging the
desires of the flesh and of the mind,
and were by nature children of wrath,
even as the rest. But God, being rich in
mercy, because of his great love with
which he loved us, even when we were
dead in our transgressions, made us
alive together with Christ. By grace you
have been saved, and raised us up with
him and seated us with him in the
heavenly places in Christ Jesus, so that
in the ages to come, he might show the
surpassing riches of his grace and
kindness toward us in Christ Jesus. For
by grace you have been saved through
faith, and that not of yourselves. It is
a gift of God, not as results of works,
so that no one may boast. For grace you
have been saved through faith. Right?
What a wonderful gift that God has given
us for us to be able to have eternal
life and the hope of eternity with him
and with his son.
Hebrews 12 verse 1 and 2.
Hebrews 12 verse 1 and two.
Therefore, since we have a great cloud
of witnesses surrounding us, let us also
lay aside every incumbrance and the sin
which so easily entangles us, and let us
run with endurance the race that is set
before us, fixing our eyes on Jesus, the
author and perfector of our faith, who
for the joy set before him, endured the
cross, despising the shame, and sat down
at the right hand of the throne of God.
Right? Jesus is the perfector of our
faith.
So whenever I see that Jesus is the
perfector of our faith, that would lead
me to think, okay, it should be my goal
to try and emulate the faith that Jesus
had. And if we read through the Bible,
right, if we read through the gospels
and we take a look at the life of Jesus,
we can see that Jesus was in constant
worship to God. He lived a life of
worship. His conversations turned back
to the father. He left and went to pray,
right? He spoke highly of the father.
And then of course in his actions he did
that which the father willed for him. He
obeyed the father.
And then finally 1 Peter 1:es
3-9.
1 Peter 1 3-9.
Blessed be the God and Father of our
Lord Jesus Christ, who according to his
great mercy has caused us to be born
again to a living hope through the
resurrection of Jesus Christ from the
dead, to obtain an inheritance which is
imper imperishable and undefiled and
will not fade away, reserved in heaven
for you, who are protected by the power
of God through faith for a salvation
ready to be revealed in the last time.
In this you greatly rejoice, even though
now for a little while, if necessary,
you have been distressed by various
trials, so that the proof of your faith
being more precious than gold, which is
perishable, even though tested by fire,
may be found to result in praise and
glory and honor at the revelation of
Jesus Christ. And though you have not
seen him, you love him. And though you
do not see him now, but believe in him,
you greatly rejoice with joy
inexpressable and full of glory,
obtaining as the outcome of your faith
the salvation of your souls.
Right? But I I want to I want to take a
quick peek back at at verse eight. I'm
sorry, verse 7
may be found to result in the praise,
the glory, and honor at the revelation
of Jesus Christ. Right? And that is what
our life should be about. That is what
we should aim in our life for people to
see when they see us when they see us
outside of these walls at at the
workplace, right? Maybe sitting in your
car at at traffic, when we're going
through grocery shopping, when we're
talking to somebody on the phone, right?
When we're just out in the general
public,
what should be seen is a life that
brings glory and honor to Jesus and to
God.
A life that is dedicated to worshiping
God and Christ for what he has done for
us. Right? It should just overflow from
us. It should be so ingrained into us
that it overflows from every single
portion that we have. Right? And so a
faithful life of worship, it doesn't
stop at 11:15 on a Sunday morning. Or
better yet, it doesn't stop at a 10:00
a.m. on a Sunday morning.
Doesn't start at 7 to 8:00 p.m. on a
Wednesday night. It's 24/7, 3:65
from now until the day that we are
called up to glory with him forever. And
then guess what? Lucky us, it gets to
continue.
So worship is something that should be
in our DNA,
right? When we put to death the old man
and we rise a new from the watery grave
and put on Christ, our DNA should be
rewritten.
The DNA that is purposed to worship God.
So there was u Napoleon, right? So this
is a legend from 1799.
So Napoleon had this this massive army
and they were preparing to attack this
small Austrian town uh called uh Feldk.
So of course the the people um they had
spotted these soldiers and they were you
know kind of far away but it's like
they're coming right and so of course
the people were just filled with fear. I
mean what are we going to do right?
We're just a little tiny town. Napoleon
has this great army that is coming to
destroy us and to take over. So there
was a council of citizens that were
summoned to decide whether they should
do one of two things, right? We can
either fight and try to defend our city
and our town or we throw up the white
flag and just surrender, right? Why put
ourselves through it? Well, it happened
to be Easter Sunday and the people had
gathered in the local church and pastor
gets up and and he speaks and says,
"Friends, we have been counting on our
own strength and apparently that has
failed. As this is the day of our Lord's
resurrection, let us ring the bells,
have our services as usual, and leave
the matter in his hands. We know only
our own weakness. Let us trust in the
power of God to defend us." So the
council, they accepted his plan, right?
It's it's Easter Sunday. Let us just
let's just worship. Uh and so they rang
the church bells to to begin the
services as they would normally do.
However, the enemy hearing the bells
concluded that the Austrian army had
arrived during the night to defend the
town and before the service ended, the
enemy broke camp and left.
Our worship
is important, right? Our worship can
save us from so many battles
and it's difficult because a lot of
times when the battles come is the time
where we feel the least like we want to
worship, right? When the hard times come
is when we don't want to be sitting
here. We don't want to wait for God's
timing.
We don't want to turn to anybody else
except for how can I fix this?
But God is there.
God is always there. He wants to help.
He wants us to be in a relationship with
him. He wants us to come to him. He
wants us to be in worship to him.
Right? Words.
That's not it. It's not what you say.
It's not how well you say it. It's not
how many times you say it. What is our
heart? Right? That's the biggest thing
when we are worshiping here in this
building Sunday morning, Sunday night,
Bible class, fellowships, Wednesday
night,
but when we're sitting at home,
when we're sitting next to our
co-workers, when we're sitting in the
car, when we're about to go to bed, when
we just wake up, where's our hearts?
Are we starting and finishing every
morning with our hearts oriented towards
God?
Looking to worship and praise him for
the wonderful things that he's done a on
a global scale over all time, but even
just what he's done for us that day.
I want to leave you with a quote. Awtoer
says, "I can safely say on the authority
of all that is revealed in the word of
God that any man or woman on this earth
who is bored and turned off by worship
is not ready for heaven.
This is a training ground.
We are so blessed to have the
information that we have to be able to
spend the short amount of years that we
have here on this earth worshiping and
praising God. But it doesn't end here.
This is our hope for eternity is to be
in the presence of the almighty, the
creator and the savior of the entire
world
forever in worship, forever in praise,
forever in honor that we, a sinful human
being, could be justified by his son to
even be worthy enough, made worthy
enough to be in his presence. presence
for all of time.
If you are here tonight and you feel
maybe like your worship just hasn't been
in your heart, if you feel like you need
prayers, if you feel like um you know
you want to be baptized and and join in
to the hope and the eternity of a
lifetime of worship forever more, we
would love to help you however we can.
And if you would come right now as we
stand and as we
