Now there's a thing called the law of
diffusion of innovation
and it some degree is going to affect
some of the things I'll talk about from
time to time particularly whereas we're
talking about uh answering questions
that sometimes are hard to answer. Uh
the law of diffusion of innovation
basically says that about 2.5% are
innovators. That means they're already
ahead of us thinking. Uh there's about
13.5%
who would be called early adopters who
learn something new and are quick to uh
catch on to it. Uh 34% are what's called
early majority and then 34% are late
majority. So that's the most people
where most people are. Some a little
quicker than the others to pick up, some
a little slower, but most people are
there. And then 16% are called lagards
and they are the last to adopt and often
do not learn uh quickly and do not
accept things that they didn't
understand previously because they're
prejudice against all things that would
be new. So that's always true and uh so
it's true when we go into questions and
we look at answers that maybe you've
never heard before and never looked at.
So, you need to be aware when we walk
out of here at any good Q&amp;A, everybody's
not going to agree.
Everybody's not going to get it and
everybody's not going to like it. It's
just the way it is. And it depends on
who you are and what your personality is
like. It's not so easy to answer
questions. I like what one lady uh said.
She said, "I'm an elementary PE teacher
and I run a summer camp. uh kids uh
raises his hand to ask what I believe
will be a dumb question and I high five
that hand and I say no I he kid will
answer back usually no I wanted to ask a
question and I will say was the question
can have a have a high five because the
answer was yes so she didn't
particularly care for questions
sometimes she said a kid will sometimes
be on a swing shouting over to me will
you push me and my answer is, "Yeah,
come over here."
The next time someone asks, "Well, can
you tell me how to spell?" And and the
hard words that there are to spells,
I've looked at the list that are
considered hard to spell. Conscientious,
believe it or not, is considered. Rhythm
is considered a little hard. Liaison a
little hard. Uh supersede, a little
hard. Anamanopia is considered a little
hard. A little confusing. A couple of
words in there. So, can you tell me how
to spell one of these hard words uh
correctly? And my response is c o r r e
c t l y correctly.
You'll get it later. I like that. Why?
Why, if you're like me, why do we maybe
have the habit of seeing a different
answer? Because I'm kind of that way.
I'll see a different answer. And um and
somebody may wonder why that's true of
me. Maybe you're that way. Uh I think
mine's partly from my dad. My dad used
to say to me, I don't know if he really
wanted to be a be a preacher. But he'd
say to me, said, "Well, if you're going
to preach, don't just be a 2x4
preacher." For a long time, I didn't
really know for sure what that was. Uh
but looking it up, it means a low
status, unsophisticated, or hick
preacher. I don't know if she he got his
wish. He said a standard size of uh
inexpensive construction lumber is what
it represents and something that is
small insignificant and of little worth.
He says it means provincial uneducated
or amateurish means operating out of a
very small humble church that might be
compared to a woodshed and it was first
used by Sinclair Lewis in the 1927 book
Elmer Gantry. You might remember the
story of that where it says you have to
deal with a lot of these 2x4 hick
preachers uh with churches about the
size of a woodshed. So maybe that's it.
Maybe it was I was trying to be whatever
he said. But maybe I think uh if if
you're like me, it's I I crave certainty
over ambiguity.
Or maybe um if you're like me, I'm
seeking validation, trying to find a way
for us to agree.
And maybe I was raised too strict and I
fear the judgment of what you think.
Maybe I'm just seeking attention. That's
possible. And so I look for a different
way of seeing things. Maybe I'm just
stuck in overthinking mode, which is a
real possibility. or maybe I'm trying to
get a new perspective, something I'd
never seen before. Or maybe I'm
gathering too much information. If
you're like me and you kind of see
things from a different angle, maybe
that's it. And so some of you will hate
that. You will hate that I see it from a
different angle. It will bother you to
no end. But I'm going to do a lot of
that tonight. So wanted to prepare you a
little bit and get you to understand why
I would be so weird about it. So, we
have three questions tonight. We're
going to try to cover them in 30 minutes
as best I can. The first one is a really
long question. If this is yours, you
need to cut them down in the future.
Here's the question. On a daily basis,
what are good routines for practical
tactical Christianity? I'm just catching
my breath. But uh Bible study, prayer,
serving, disciplehip, dying to self,
loving your wife, submitting to husband,
visiting with the sick, using our
spiritual gifts, catching my breath
again. Haven't finished the question.
What does or can that look like in our
daily walk? The Bible mentions our walk
in several instances. What is a model of
that in today's world? likely similar or
different for some. I'm going to answer
the question upfront. Here's the answer.
I don't think I can say.
There's the answer. I don't think I can
say, but I want to help you understand
that. Uh, I love spiritual disciplines.
I really do. And I don't know if you've
ever read the book by Richard Foster of
Celebration of Discipline. Highly
recommend it. Really good read. Really
good study. Uh but let me preface now
where I'm going with this. Uh the
legalist view focuses on earning favor
by perfect rule following emphasizing
performance, self-effort and
self-judging bondage. Really the grace
view focuses primarily on unmmerited
favor focusing on transformation from
gratitude resulting in love. So what
you're looking at is the legalistic view
tends to focus on rules, external
behavior, self-effort, perfection. If
you lean legalistically, then that would
be more the answer you'd be looking for
is the reason I point this out.
Motivation is to earn God's acceptance,
God's blessings, the worth from God. But
the the power source in a person
thinking like that is human strength,
human effort, uh the flesh or the
spiritual life. The outcome though
usually is this kind of a spiritual
bondage, frustration, sometimes pride,
sometimes being judgmental of yourself
and self-focused. The mantra of people
like that is do right to be good and
accepted. So you got to do right or you
won't be good or you won't be accepted
by God or anyone else for that matter.
The grace view which is another view.
It's more relationshipbased.
And so let me give you a couple of
pointers on that. So it's the idea the
focus is on a relationship with God.
It's often related to your internal
character receiving God's gift of
salvation. The motivation seems to be
gratitude for Christ's finishing work.
It is finished. it's done. Uh the power
source is divine power, the spirit
leading you. The outcome is spiritual
freedom of life and peace and a desire
to glorify God. And the mantra usually
is Christ did it. Trust him and live in
freedom because we are church of
Christbased. We tend to be more of the
legalistic view than we are of the grace
view. Uh I think it's a bit of a
paradoxical idea personally and the
legal view is a is right in my opinion.
Uh the grace view is right in my
opinion. So I knew that that will answer
all your questions right there. So why
is the legal view dangerous? Because it
tends to lead to hypocrisy. Why is the
grace view dangerous? because it tends
to lead to antinomianism or anti-law. So
both have got problems. Both have got
good things about them. Now the key
differences uh in in practice or
legalism is like when you read the Bible
for a checklist for comparing ourselves
with others for judging others for
bashing uh our spirituality on
discipline or bashing their disciplines
for striving for self-righteousness. The
grace view tends to be reading the Bible
to meet God for love and for acceptance
of of others for that matter. Observing
out of transformed desire to know God
better and out of a gratitude for what
he has done for us for finding our
identity in Christ and in his love.
Both of them have truth both ways. It's
kind of a paradox. Let me let me see if
I can give you that from a scriptural
point of view because I I know everybody
thinks it's got to be one or the other.
Uh I haven't concluded that personally,
but maybe you're right. Uh the goal is
not to abandon biblical commands, but to
shift from trying to earn salvation by
works, maybe to living godly uh
empowered lives by grace. At least
that's what Oh, I went it was there
already. So, here's some of the
scriptures and I and I've given you the
grace thing because most of us want to
lean that way even though we are
basically ra uh raised in the legalistic
path, but now we're all trying to lean
the grace way. I think most of us here
at uh Creekide. Romans 3:20,
wherefore by works of the law shall no
flesh be declared righteous before God,
for through law is a knowledge of sin.
And the idea well usually if you're in
church Christ just mean that well that
was talking about the Old Testament but
that's not what people mean by it.
Romans 3 28 says therefore do we reckon
a man to be declared righteous by faith
apart from the works of the law. So
again it's not by keeping laws is what
the the grace people will say. Uh
Genesis 15:6 and he believed in the Lord
and he accounted it to him for
righteousness. Again that's based upon
the idea of faith. Abraham was saved
before he was circumcised. Galatians 2
and verse 16, knowing that a man is not
justified by the works of the law, but
by faith in Jesus Christ, even we have
believed in Christ Jesus that we might
be justified by faith in Christ and not
by the works of the law. For by the
works of the law, no flesh shall be
justified again. So, it's obvious that
you're saved by grace through faith.
It's not of works, lest you should
boast. And I think the paradox is is
that while all that's true, and I'm not
going to try to explain what's wrong
with that view, I just want to point out
that the opposite seems to also be true.
Galatians chapter I mean James 2 and
verse 24, faith without works is dead
being alone. Right? That's actually in
the Bible. Matthew 7:21-23
talks about how that just because you
call me Lord, Lord, and do not the
things which I say, uh I I don't know
who you are. Depart from me, you work
iniquity because it's the one who does
the will of the father that's going to
be saved. 2 Thessalonians 15 and verse
11 basically in the same place says that
you can be counted worthy of the
kingdom. Well, how that's almost an
exclusive concept when you talk about
grace salvation because none of us are
worthy. None of us are worthy and that's
all you're going to hear. I'm suggesting
to you that maybe we're trying to be too
picky that our one side or the other has
to be right and the other side has to be
wrong. Maybe both sides are right. Maybe
both sides are slightly wrong. And maybe
if we had that attitude, we'd be a
little more open to talking about this
in a way that wouldn't offend everybody
and we wouldn't try to make the other
one out that there's some kind of
heathen sinner in the church that they
would dare believe that. And and that's
the thing that worries me a little bit
about this whole thing. If I could give
you a list though, and this was the
question. Remember what the question
was? Let me go back. What does or can
this look like? What do we do in our
daily walk, our study, our prayer, our
serving, our disciplehip, our dying to
self? Well, give me show me how to do
that. If I could give you that specific
list, you should deny it, destroy it,
and get rid of it because then it would
be a literally I would have given you a
creed, a thing that you must do. And
what I don't want to do is ever do that
to you. You need to make up your own
mind by reading your Bible the way you
can to the best of your ability and do
what you're capable of doing. And and
when you need to, you need to rely
strictly on the grace of God and the
forgiveness of God and the mercies of
God because you can't get it all right.
And you need to be able to do both of
those things in my I think you need to
be able to uh juggle and chew chewing
gum at the same time. But what is the
model of that world? I mean, what would
God expect of us? He wants us to be like
Jesus. There it is. He wants us to be
like Jesus. He wants to believe in Jesus
and the work of Jesus that did finish
the work that really takes care of your
ultimate sin problem. He wants us to be
with Jesus. That means that we spend
time with Jesus. Acts 4:13 as they did
to learn how you're supposed to be like
Jesus. He wants us to be like Jesus and
to be like Jesus is our ultimate goal.
So I don't have a list. I do have a
book. Read the book. Figure it out.
Okay. And if you want to say, "Oh, well,
you need to be more, you know, about
what we ought to do." Okay. I'm not
arguing with you. Well, no, you even
want more about grace. Okay. I'm not
arguing with you.
If you're a late adopter, that makes you
miserable. I'm just letting you know,
Christian life is not about what we do
uh that you want to do or don't want to
do. It's about doing both. It's about
believing that God has done the work and
about doing what he's asked us to do.
Okay? And you're just going to have to
figure out the list on your own because
your list is going to be different from
mine because you have different issues
than I do.
Okay? Sorry. I know that's not going to
give you peace if you had that question.
I apologize. So, next question. It's
going to equally do the same thing. When
we die, what happens? Where do we go? uh
sleep, heaven, Abraham's bosom. Does it
differ for Christians and
non-Christians? The answer is I don't
know for sure.
I don't know for sure. I can tell you
what I've learned. I'm going to give you
a few things that I've learned. You can
look these up. You if you see one up
here that it's bothering you, then get
your Bible out, look it up. Okay? I'm
not going to read through all these.
This is 50 scriptures. We're not going
to do that tonight. We won't get through
tonight. Here's some things I know. The
dead are alive.
Jesus makes that clear.
Uh, dead Lazarus was in Abraham's bosom.
We know that if that's a true story and
not a parable.
The dead thief was in paradise with
Jesus. We're told
the dead are with Christ. We're told
the dead group seems to have ascended.
That's a deeper study. We're not going
to get into that right now, but that's
kind of covered in Ephesians if you want
to get into that. That what used to be
something that was preached a lot in the
church. Y'all probably don't even know
about that. Uh Jesus pictured as
preaching to disobedient dead.
Well, most in the church don't like that
view. So, that's not commonly believed,
but it is suggested by some from Peter.
The dead may literally be asleep. Well,
that's definitely frowned upon in the
church. However, it may be true, and you
won't know it until we get to the other
end.
Sorry, there are a lot of scriptures,
and I gave you a lot of scriptures here
because I know some are not going to
like that one. So there are indications
that may be the truth. I don't lean that
way and I interpret that differently.
I'm more with you on this. However, I'm
capable of being wrong. The next one is
if the dead sleep, they may sleep till
judgment.
Okay? And then you wouldn't know the
difference anyway. So you die and you
wake up there and yeah,
the dead martyrs are symbolically aware
of time passing slowly. in revelation
6:10 which kind of nullifies this if
that's the way we're to interpret but of
course that's revelation so I don't know
if you should take that literally or not
so if the soul does not possess
immortality which by the way is a
possibility
that's a real real negative thing to say
sorry
but it is theoretical possibility from
scripture so if the soul does not
possess immortality it must be raised at
judgment that doesn't mean is not alive
after death, but it doesn't necessarily
possess immortality. So, if that's not
upset you enough, basically what I'm
trying to say is that these are
paradoxical ideas, and I don't know 100%
which one's correct. I'll tell you which
way I lean. Can do that. I lean from
what we just looked at. If you read all
of this together, this is where I lean.
I lean in. The saved are with God.
At the resurrection, they're raised.
They're judged. And then the wicked are
raised and they're judged.
And then we go to the eternal place.
That's the best I can come up with.
Okay. So, like I said, I told you it's
going to frustrate you tonight. I
apologize for frustrating you, but I'm
well aware that uh there are early
adopters and they're late adopters. So,
some of you sitting there going, I've
never heard that before in my life. That
can't be right. Okay, I get you. That's
okay. I got it. Okay. Last question.
Number three.
Power of prayer, fasting, and when and
how to do it. Uh I don't like this
question.
Sorry, I don't mean to offend anybody
who asked this question. I don't like
this question. Let me tell you why I
don't like the question. Uh the power of
prayer. Uh
the power of prayer lies in the ability
to connect individuals with the divine
in their minds. offering profound
mental, emotional and spiritual benefits
like stress reduction, increased hope
and a great sense of purpose while also
fostering community and uh and
resilience. It gives swift perspective
uh I mean shift pers perspective,
comfort and emotional strength
influencing personal growth and
overcoming challenges in life. Is there
power in prayer? Yes. But that's not
what we mean.
That's not what we mean when we say
that. That's why I have a problem with
the statement. I don't believe there's
power in prayer. I think there's power
in God.
I don't think I have any power. When I'm
praying, I don't have power. I'm asking.
I'm begging something. There's no power
there. I mean, it's just I don't like
the term. I would say there's power in
God. We should pray. Ask for God to do
things because Luke 1:37, for with God
nothing will be impossible. So that's
absolutely true. Uh there's there's
power of God versus power in prayer.
There's power of God versus power of
fasting. Same thing. Well, if you fast,
is that powerful? It is for you. Does it
make a difference with God? I don't know
for sure, but I'm going to give you some
scripture on it. Okay? I'm going to give
you scripture on this one. And then
power of God versus power of of how. So,
I want you to I had to ask you to turn
turn with me now to Isaiah chapter 58
and I'll read a text. It's probably the
best text on fasting in the Bible and
you'll begin to see the list come up in
a minute. So, um here we go. I'm going
to start reading. I'm going to start
reading from verse four just for the
sake of time. Go down to verse 10.
Indeed, you fast for strife and debate
debate and to strike with a fist of
wickedness. You will not fast as you do
this day to make your voice heard on
high. Is it a fast that I have chosen, a
day for a man to afflict his soul? Is it
to bow down his head like a bull rush
and to spread out sackcloth and ashes?
Would you call this a fast and an
acceptable day to the Lord? Is this not
the fast that I have chosen to loose the
bonds of wickedness, to undo the heavy
burdens, to let the oppressed go free,
and that you break every yoke? Is it not
to share your bread with the hungry, and
that you bring to your house the poor or
are cast out? When you see the naked,
that you cover him, and not hide
yourself from your own flesh. Then your
light shall break forth like the
morning. Your healing shall spring forth
speedily, and your righteousness shall
go before you. The glory of the Lord
shall be your rear guard. That's we go
on to 10. Then you shall call, and the
Lord will answer. You shall cry and he
will say, "Here I am." If you take away
the yoke from your midst, the pointing
of the fingers, and the speaking
wickedness. If you extend your soul to
the hungry and satisfy the afflicted
soul, then your light shall dawn in the
darkness, and your darkness shall be as
the noon day. The Lord will guide you
continually and satisfy your soul in
drought and strengthen your bones. and
you should be like a watered garden and
like a spring of water whose waters do
not fail. Now there are two views on
this text. One is is that he's comparing
fasting and not changing your life with
changing your life deeds. On the other
hand of the coin there is what it's
suggesting is both the idea of fasting
and also changing your life and that
fasting could actually lead to helping
you change your life. I prefer that way
of reading it. I'm not 100% sure if
that's the way you should read it. But
if that is the way of reading it, then
it's suggesting what is that? Seven
things here. To be heard by God is one
of the reasons you fast that you don't
feel like you're being heard. So you
might fast to break the bonds of
wickedness. If there's a bond of
wickedness over your life and you can't
seem to break it, fast to undo heavy
burdens. If you're burdened, then you
might fast to maybe take off some of the
burden off of you or others for that
matter to have the oppressed go free if
you need to help someone else be
unoppressed. Uh and in in the New
Testament, that would possibly even
relate to demons. But the point is is
that you could fast about that. You
could fast to break every yoke of
bondage that's on your life or on other
people's life. You could ask for that.
You could share uh my substance. And so
you fast to be able to share your
substance and then to become one with uh
with those to help others. And so that's
a list of possible seven. It's an
interesting text. Like I said, it's
looked at two different ways from the
New Testament predominantly in a couple
of Old Testament passages. Here's the
rest of the list. The rest of the list
goes like this. Why would you fast?
Biblical reason. Another one would be to
just simply worship God. We have
examples particularly as the woman that
sees Jesus when he's a baby. That's what
she does. She worships God in fasting.
In Matthew 9, it's to sorrow. You don't
you don't eat because you're literally
in grief and so you're fasting from
that. Daniel 10 verse 12 and then uh I
mean 12:es 2 and 3 as well to understand
God's will. That's what Daniel was
doing. and he was fasting asking God to
help him to understand the will of God
about what was happening. In Ezra
chapter 8, 2 Chronicles 2 20 and Joel
chapter 2, it is to simply seek God's
help regard some spiritual matter. In
Jonah chapter 3, obviously it's about
repenting sorrowfully. That's what all
the Ninevites did, as you know, when
they fasted, when they did it, even down
to the animals, putting sackcloth and
ashes and not feeding the animals or
giving them drink. No, Psalm 35 and
Psalm 69 is to humble yourself and to
discipline yourself and fasting does do
that. And then Jo John chapter 4, uh
Jesus basically is engaged in a slight
fast, but Matthew 4 obviously is he's
engaged in a deep fast to feast on God,
his word, or his work. So those are the
list that I know. There are probably
other things you could add to that list,
but if that's your question, why would
you fast? Why how would it how would you
do it? Which is the second part of the
question. Is there power in fasting? The
Bible seems to indicate that there is
from the perspective of that it's good
for you and that's the predominant way,
but is there power in it? I would not
say it's the same thing I'd say about
the prayer thing. Not really power in
prayer, power in God. God can do things
for you when you are fasting, but you
don't attain to a great amount of power.
Colossians chapter 2 seems to indicate
you shouldn't even think that way. So,
um, but it's a paradox to me that, uh,
both are true. God works. We work in
prayer. I lean toward God does this, but
you can say it both ways. And it sounds
like it's got to be one way or the
other, but I think it's probably both
ways. So there are five suggestions for
fasting. I'm going to give you those
really quick. So if you're going to
fast, I recommend highly that you try a
very short one first, okay? Like a day
or even a part of a day. Uh especially
if you have medical conditions. Uh
abstain from caffeine first. I if you're
a caffeine guy that drinks a lot of
coffee every day, I highly recommend
that you stop the caffeine about 2 to
three days before you go on a fast
because you're going to get a headache.
uh if you cut it out completely most
times uh best to eat light meals before
you begin one especially it's going to
be a long fast you're going to go
several days uh I highly recommend you
cut down and eat lighter foods you know
soups and stuff like that and then
understand the natural body's reaction
to a fast you know the first uh uh I'd
say the first three days you feel pretty
bad uh around the fourth day you start
feeling really a lot better and you get
where you don't even think about eating
and it's actually a blessing to you and
one of the best things that happens is
your thinking clears up especially by
about the fourth or the fifth day your
thinking gets really clear. You see
things very clearly spiritual. It's one
of the reasons fasting is good for you
spiritually because about the fourth,
fifth, sixth, seventh day you see uh
what really matters clearly and it feels
good to be unhinged from the world. So,
and then understand how to break an
extended fast. Don't go and eat a big
meal. Uh you will regret it later. I
promise you. So, you want to eat lightly
the first meal. Uh things that will uh
get through your body. That's best best
way I can say it. All right. So, so
that's basically uh so here's what
here's here's the big stuff tonight. So,
I I've given you so much. uh what is a a
model uh that in today's world uh like
similar or different for some of how to
live your Christian life what should you
do and the answer is uh I don't think I
can say
uh second question uh when we die what
happens where do we go sleep heaven
Abraham's bosom does it differ from
Christians or non-Christians
uh I don't know for sure but I believe
we go to be with God and we're with
Christ in heaven and uh and then later
things change because there is a
resurrection and a judgment that I do
not believe happens immediately upon
death. And then there's power of prayer
uh fasting and when and how to do it and
uh I don't think like that. So I really
don't like the question but I hope you
got what I was really trying to say
about that.
You frustrated yet? Do you understand
what I said at the beginning? Now, I
told you before this list, I wanted to
prepare you a little bit, okay? And I'm
sorry that it might have been a little
frustrating or maybe I've rushed through
it so quick and but because I can see
some of these things from two different
angles. Maybe I shouldn't, but I do. A
poll of 200, not 200, but 2,000 parents
of six year olds. So, if you got a
six-year-old or younger, listen up. poll
of two 2,000 parents of six year olds.
Uh what what's the number one question
you're asked? Uh 37% says what?
Uh 22% all they want to hear about is
when when are we doing and uh 11% says
why all the time.
And then the most interesting question
that parents mentioned that that they
had and what was interesting to me is I
I don't think we ever had this question.
So I I thought it was an interesting
question. It's the number one question
of those 2000 polls. Why is the sky so
high?
Did any of y'all ask that question? I've
never heard that question before. And
that was of the 2000. The parents ad
admitted that they uh
confidently
answer only about 42%
of the questions their kids ask. They
don't really know the answer, but
sometimes they'll give them an answer
anyway, right? Or, you know, it's just
because I said so. Um, and then 81% of
all parents, and this is where I wanted
to get to in this whole discussion, 81%
of parents said that they learn as much
as their children by the questions they
ask.
Oh,
so while you may not appreciate the fact
that these questions were asked, I think
the question asking the questions are
good for us. Even when I don't give you
a satisfying answer, you know why? Cuz
some of you sitting there don't agree
with some of the things maybe I said or
we're more interested in it. Well, go
now and you will study that thing and
that will be good. It'll also be good
for you to hear that after all these
years of studying, I don't know
everything that you want me to know. I
just simply do not. Uh I simply do not
know. And there's a lot of things in
that category. But here's what it really
says, too. Questions
must be hotwired into us.
Do you hear me? We must be hotwired to
ask questions that burn within our soul.
And apparently, it's so hotwired into us
that we don't think that we can go and
grow beyond where we are without asking
questions. So ask questions. My first
grade teacher, her name was Miss Bobo. I
know you think that's a clown name, but
that was her name. Miss Bobo. In fact,
I'm related to the Bobo family.
So, if you think you've seen a clown,
look at here. So, uh, so the Dutton and
the Bobos are related. So, Miss Bobo was
like 80s something years old when she
was my teacher. She had been my
brother's teacher, my sister's teacher.
This is a first grade teacher. She had
been my my brother, my sister. She had
been my father's teacher. She had taught
everybody down the line, Miss Bobo. Now,
she's gone on to whatever her uh glory
or or facing her maker. But the one
thing she said over and over again, if
you want to learn, ask questions.
Ask questions. Acts 8 verse 30. Do you
understand what you read?
Do you understand what you ought to do?
Do you understand what you ought to do
tonight?
If you don't, you should ask somebody to
help you on that. Okay? So, that's where
I'm leaving you. If there is a doubt
about where you would spend eternity
tonight, I'd talk to somebody sitting
near you. But if you need to come while
we stand and while we
