Great people u once transformed
I think encourage other people to
transform.
Couple examples you see up there and
quotes that they say. I want to tell you
a story about a caterpillar. Actually,
it's not a story about a caterpillar.
Um, I'm not sure this is true story
because I'm going to be quoting a
caterpillar, but it's a story about a
man who well, a prince who found a a
fair maiden and he was so thrilled he
was going to marry her, but his enemy
stole the maiden, put him in high tower.
It's not a hair story, okay? So, it's
but it was very high tower. And he
couldn't get to her, but uh he had plans
and he was going to get to her. So, he
had two friends that he asked for help.
He asked a caterpillar for help and he
asked a butterfly. The caterpillar's
name was Claude. The butterflyy's name
was um excuse me right now. I'll tell
you in a minute. Barney, I think it was.
So Barney the butterfly and Claude the
caterpillar. So what ends up happening
is he asked Claude the caterpillar. He
tells him when he's going to be there to
rescue her, but he says basically that
uh to wait on the butterfly. And at the
moment the butterfly gets there, that's
what I'm going to arrive and save you.
And so Claude's given this assignment.
Well, he's a worm. And so he's got to
climb all the way to the tower. And so
it's a long trip. I mean, and Claude is
one of those guys kind of wakes up on
the wrong side of the bed every morning.
You know what I mean? Kind of a grumpy
caterpillar. And so it's like, ah, it's
so hot. And then it starts raining. It's
ah, it's raining. Finally, he gets to
the tower. He's just now to the tower
and he finds a bush along the side of
the tower and he starts climbing it. Oh,
good. There's a bush here. Oh, no. It's
a rose bush. And so, he gets stuck. And
all the time he's going, "Ouch." Oh,
this is horrible. Finally, he gets to
the window at the top and there's the
the the lady and he says, "Are you the
lady I was sent to send a message to?"
And uh she says, "Well, I'm the maiden."
Said, "Well,
this is it. You're the one. You don't
look like much to me. Anyway, the prince
told me to come and tell you that
tomorrow he's going to come and save
you. I don't know why. You don't look
like you're worth it to me. And off he
goes. She's kind of like, "Wow, that's
ugly." And so tomorrow, the butterfly,
you know, he flies to the window, but on
his way there, bird tries to hit him. I
mean, everything try, the wind is so
strong, barely makes it there. When he
finally gets there, Barney the butterfly
the he says it flats flies around in the
room at the tower and finally he finds
the woman and gets her to notice him and
he says, "So you're the princess." Said,
"Yeah." Said, "Well, I'm sent here by
the prince to tell you that he's coming
today anytime now. He's going to win.
He's going to climb up here. He's going
to get you." And he he she said, "Yeah,
the caterpillar told me that a couple of
days ago." Said, "But boy, he had such a
nasty attitude." And the butterfly said,
"Yeah, I used to be like that before I
was transformed."
That's a long way to go to get to the
idea that there is a transformation
process
and it does take time.
Back in the 50s, there was a guy named
Stuart Hamlin. And Steuart Hamlin was a
radio host. He's supposedly a comedian,
songwriter. Lived in Hollywood. Very
famous in Hollywood. You probably don't
remember him, but he was also famous for
his drinking, for his womanizing, and
his partying. He's kind of a wild boy.
In fact, one of his hit songs was, "I
won't go hunting with you, Jake, but
I'll go chasing women.
One time uh he was because he's a radio
host, there was a preacher in town
running the tent meeting and it was
going to be his job to interview him on
air. So he thought, well, I'll go hear
him one night, try to find out something
I can jab at him because I hate
preachers. Don't want to be around him
and so I want to find something that I
could use against him.
So he goes and the preacher he never
seen before, but the preacher says this,
says this several times in his lesson.
There's one man in this audience who's a
big fake.
And so Stuart kept saying,
"Is he talking to me?"
And it starts bothering him. Is he
talking to me? He keeps saying that.
Well, when the sermon's over, it's
really bothers him. But anyway, he goes
back about 4 days later. It's bothered
him so bad. Four days later, he shows up
at the tent preachers hotel room,
knocking on the door at 2 in the
morning, and he's as drunk as a skunk.
And he says, "Will you let me in? I need
to talk to you."
Preachers said, "No, he's not coming in
here." So, well, I'm really tore up
about what happened. Finally, he lets
him in, talks to him till 5 in the
morning when he kind of soers up. Guy
prays,
decides to become a Christian after all
of that.
And then
he then goes back to his radio program.
He literally quits drinking,
quits womanizing. He truly makes a
change. I mean, the guy, this is a real
story. He truly makes a change in his
life. So much so that he gets fired
because he wouldn't allow a beer
uh uh some type of a beer to be
advertised on his radio program and as a
result the manager of the radio station
fired him.
Now one day fell named John one of his
friends was talking to him and he says
this to him. He says, "Steuart,
do you realize that all your trouble
started because he lost everything? I
mean, he lost everything. That change
that he took place, he ended up losing
everything. Lost his house. Uh, terrible
things happened to him because he made
that change." And so, John says to him,
you know, all your trouble started when
you got religion. Was it worth it?
And he said, "Yes."
Well, you used to like your booze so
much. Don't you miss it? He said, 'N no.
He said, 'Well, I just don't understand
what on earth would make you give up all
of that to end up where you are right
now. You could have just so easily been
back where you were. Said, how in the
world did you give it all up for God?
And he said this back to John. He says,
it's no big secret. All things are
possible with God. John says, "You know,
that's a pretty interesting, catchy
phrase. You write songs. Maybe you
should write a song about that." And he
did. It's called It Is No Secret. It is
no secret what God can do. What he's
done for others, he'll do for you with
arms wide open. He'll welcome you. It is
no secret what God can do. That friend
was, just in case you think this isn't a
true story, John Wayne. And that tent
preacher was Billy Graham.
Change does not come easy.
Transformation
is hard and it can be long. And if
there's any message you get today,
that's the message I want you to get
because God really wants us to be
transformed. God really wants us to be
different. Romans 12:es 1-3, I beseech
you therefore, brethren, by the mercies
of God, that you present your bodies a
living sacrifice, holy. Listen to that
word, holy, acceptable to God, which is
your reasonable service, and do not be
conformed to this world, but be
transformed by the renewing of your
mind, that you may prove what is that
good and acceptable and perfect will of
God. Look at the definition of holiness.
It is to attained when we turn from
being a person who by nature, instinct,
and habit rebel against God. To be a
person who by nature, instinct, and
habit align ourselves completely with
God. You think that's easy. If you're
sitting here and you're a young person,
you're mistaken. If you think that's
easy, if you think that's something you
do and then you've got it resolved,
you're mistaken. It is not like that.
God wants us though to be transformed.
Uh but quite honestly, we don't do it
quickly. So, it requires a great deal of
patience on his part to wait on us.
Hosea 3:1, listen to this patience. Then
the Lord said, "Go again, love a woman
who is loved by a lover and is
committing adultery."
Now, he's telling him to go and find a
woman who has no commitment.
and is sexually impure. Just like the
love of the Lord for the children of
Israel who look to other gods and love
the raisin cakes of the pagans.
We're just that unfaithful.
Jeremiah 3:1 they say if a man divorces
his wife and she goes from him and
becomes another man's, may he return to
her again?
The answer according to the law was no.
Would not that be great polluted? But
you have played the harlot with many
lovers and yet return to me. God is so
patient. Listen to me. You need to
transform. Who am I talking to? Every
one of us.
Every one of us. Let me walk through
three things that the spirit does and
then I want to make a different point.
So here we go. We are transformed
by the unveiling in this text of the
converting word of the spirit. Listen to
what it says again. Second Corinthians
3:13. Unlike Moses who put a veil over
his face so that the children of Israel
could not look steadily at the end of
what was passing away. But their minds
were blinded. For until this day, the
same veil remains unlifted in, listen to
this, to the reading of the Old
Testament. That's important. Pay
attention to that because the veil is
taken away in Christ. That's in the
reading of the Old Testament. Verse 15,
but even to this day when Moses is read,
that's the Old Testament, a veil lies
over their heart. Nevertheless, when one
turns to the Lord, the veil is taken
away. You can see who in the Old
Testament, Jesus. Here's the truth.
Jesus is the word that became flesh.
Jesus is the Old Testament. There is no
scripture that's been delivered to
mankind that's not Jesus. And if you
can't see Jesus in the Bible, there's a
veil lowered over your heart. So here's
the truth though. When you finally see
him, you are converted by the Holy
Spirit who delivered this word to us by
the converting word which is Jesus
himself.
It happens. But you got to read it. You
got to listen to it. Secondly,
we are transformed by the unveiling of
the freeing presence of the spirit. It
says in verse 17, "Now the Lord is the
spirit, and where the spirit of the Lord
is, there is liberty." You see, once you
become a Christian, you're no longer a
slave. If you're not a Christian today,
you're a slave. That's right. You're a
slave. I don't care what you think. You
may think you're a free person. You're
not a free person. You're a slave.
You're a slave of sin. And the worldly
will manipulate you every way they can
to keep you in it. They will do
everything. They will apply pressure
every way they can to try to keep you
enslaved to the way they think. But the
best thing you could possibly do is
receive Jesus and through his Holy
Spirit, you become freed. You actually
are no longer manipulated. You live a
life that you follow the Lord because
you choose to, not because the world is
trying to. Because the truth is the
world will continue to try to manipulate
you back into its clutches. The third
truth, listen to this, and I know I'm
moving quickly here, but you'll
understand in a minute. We are
transformed by the unveiling of the
glorifying nature of the spirit. It
says, "But we all with unveiled faces,"
talked about reading the word of God,
beholding as in a mirror the glory of
the Lord. When we read the scriptures,
we truly see the glory of the Lord and
are being transformed. Literally reading
the scriptures and seeing Jesus in it
will transform us and are being
transformed into that same image from
glory to glory. Did you notice that?
From glory. So, you've already attain
glory and then you attain glory. Glory
to glory. Do you see it? Just as by the
spirit of the Lord. That is divine
power, folks. This glory. If you see the
glory of the Lord, if you can see it in
the scriptures, if you can see it in the
world, you see his goodness. When you
see his glory, you see his goodness, you
see his nature, you can't look at it
without it changing. It will change, but
it doesn't slowly sometimes sometimes
like that. Here's the point. Here's the
whole lesson right here. Look at this.
So immediately uh by the converting word
of the spirit, we're changed. So
immediately when you obey the gospel,
hear, believe, repent, confess, you're
baptized, you obey the gospel,
immediately you're changed. You really
are. Otherwise, you really weren't
baptized correctly because it's a change
of heart. So there's already a change of
heart there. But then, of course, soon
even more by the freeing presence of the
spirit because you begin to be unleashed
from some of the things that have bound
you and held you down to this old world.
And that begins to happen to you. And
then later even more by the glorifying
nature of the spirit there is an
acknowledgment awareness of how good God
is. But it takes time for you to see
this greatness and this nature of God
and it to have an impact upon you.
Here's the point of all of this.
We are transformed by the spirit
quickly. How quickly? Well, here we go.
We've been transformed the same hour.
Acts 16:33. the same hour of the night
they took him. He and his family were
baptized.
That quick at we we have invitations.
They last just a minute or two. Just
that quick. Somebody decide to come
forward. Just that quick. You just make
a decision. There's a change right
there. Immediate. Just like that. Just
that quick. But then transform in the
same service. So maybe you came here and
you weren't planning to make any change
at all. And you think, "Oh, that's not
for me." You could change this very
service. Listen to 1 Corinthians 14 24.
If an uninformed person comes in, he is
convinced by all. He's convicted by all.
How is that so? Because if you're
singing and you're not just sitting
there like a lump. But if you're singing
and you're singing from your heart, the
person beside you is affected. They see
the faith in you and that convicts them.
So it isn't as much the sermons. We do a
lot more singing sometimes than we do
sermons, which is a good thing by the
way. Amen. Amen. So, but those words
when they see you mean them and not just
sit there. When you mean them, it
changes the people around you. And that
can happen in the same service. And then
we're transformed the same day. In the
same day, you might not have been
planning it this day, but in that same
day, there's a change. Luke 19:5, today
I'm coming to your house, Zakius. And
that day, he changed that same day. or
Acts 2 verse 41 they received the word
and were baptized and that day about
3,000 souls the same day the same day
this very day if you haven't changed you
could be transformed so it's quick on
the other side of the coin
we're transformed by the spirit slowly
you can take an acorn go out in your
yard there should be some out there
right now go get you an acorn and walk
out to your sidewalk and throw it as
hard as you can at that sidewalk.
You think you're going to break it?
Throw it again. No. Throw it again. No.
Throw it. Throw it 300 times. Well, it
won't be able to cuz there won't be an
acre. It'll be gone. But if you plant
that acorn
and concrete is near it, as it grows up
over the process of time,
that root will come underneath that
concrete and bust it all to pieces.
Some things take time. Some people are
so impatient, they can't believe that
any of this ch is going to be slow.
Well, let me remind you of a baby. You
know about babies?
You ever tried to pour more milk down
their throat so they'd grow?
You try that. See what your wife thinks
about that. Babies, you can put all the
food you want in them. Tomorrow they'll
be babies next week. You can put all the
foods you want in them. They'll be
babies next month. You can put all the
food and the milk in them you want. You
know what they're going to be? They're
going to be babies. Babies take time to
become little boys and little girls. And
then they take time to be teenagers. And
then they take time to be young adults.
And then they take time to be old
crotchety guys. I'm just telling you, it
takes time to get a baby up. And you
feed them a lot. And it's a lot of
money, by the way. Just want to remind
all the kids out there. But and then a
church. Some folks think you can just
snap your fingers and the church will go
from here to here. Let me tell you
something. The men I've known that were
in churches that went from here to here
quit.
Do you hear me? Quit the church as far
as preaching. I know of one, I won't
name him, famous, fastest growing church
in the churches of Christ at the time.
It blew out all the records.
10 years went from here to here. He
said, "It nearly killed me." I heard him
speak when he says, "I'm not preaching
anymore."
It was that hard.
So beware.
Yes.
But it takes time.
Takes time. Everything takes time that
really matters.
Transform
Paul. Paul was about 30 years old when
he was converted. You remember the road
to Damascus? He's about 30 years old.
That's what best estimate anybody can
come up. somewhere between 26 and 33,
but most people think he's about 30. All
right? So now he's converted. The
scriptures say immediately he preached
Christ. Acts 9 verse 20. Right? So we
know he changed immediately. Right? Like
I said, when you first obey the gospel,
you change immediately. That's
wonderful. Then what happens? Nothing.
Three years pass. Nobody even knows
where he's at. And then finally Barnabas
goes and finds him and takes him to
Antioch. First time he ever speaks as
far as we know to a gentile is in
Antioch. He'd never taught what he been
doing in those three years. Don't really
know. We're not really told. He spent
three years in Arabia, right? And then
he's over in Antioch. So now he's what
maybe 30, 33 years old, right? Okay. But
remember what God had commissioned him
to do. He had been commissioned to go
into all the world. He had been told,
"You're going to be a messenger to kings
and to countries, and that's what you're
going to do." He hadn't done that yet.
Not one time. How long was it? He was 30
about when he was converted. He was
around 41 before he went on his first
missionary journey.
And yet, you're getting frustrated with
yourself that you haven't made greater
effort.
Let me tell you one more story.
And that's about a fellow who was
basically a terrible person. Oh, I went
too far. A terrible person.
Uh,
his name was John Newton. At 17, John
Newton was pressed into service. And in
Britain, they could do that. Back in the
day, if you if you think ISIS is doing
bad, they pick up a boy on the street
and he was president of the service,
right? Then how many choice? 17, 18
years old. You go, you go, right? So,
what happened? You're in. Guess what he
wanted to do? He didn't want to be
there. So, he's on a ship. He's just on
a regular ship and he didn't want to be
there. So, he tries to get away. He
runs. You know what they do? They catch
him. They flog him in front of all the
shipmates, right? And then they bump him
down to the lowest seaman you could be.
He's still on a ship. He's miserable
now. You got to understand, it's been
about a year. So, he's transferred to
another ship. This ship happens to be a
slave ship. So, now he works on a slave
ship at the lowest level you can be as a
seaman. He does that for about two
years. Finally, he's moved to another
ship, another slave ship. Finally, he is
dropped off in West Africa where most of
the slaves were being purchased that
were in that slave trade. So, that's
where he's at. He is ends up being
treated pretty bad because now not only
is he not running a slave ship, he is
now given to a queen there who is one of
the main ones who are selling the
slaves. So he he is now put underneath
them and he's treated as bad or worse
than the slaves that are waiting to be
sold. And that's what he does for about
a year or two. His father finds out he's
there. Didn't know he was there. He gets
another captain to go and see if he can
get him out, buy him out. So he goes
there and he buys him out like a slave,
right? So he puts him on another ship.
It's called the Greyhound. this ship. He
goes, he's on his way back to England,
but he's still in the mil, you know, in
the Navy. So, he goes back to England,
but before they dock, they hit he was
woken by a storm. Almost takes the ship
down. In fact, he's praying. He wakes
up. He starts praying, "God, don't let
us go down. The ship should have gone
down, but it didn't go down." And as
he's praying and miraculously, it just
goes calm. And he's like, "Oh, there's
really a God." He didn't believe that
before that.
And so as a result, he starts reading
his Bible, starts studying his Bible. He
believes basically at that point that
that was the change in his life that
he's really now become a Christian. He
believes and he starts but it's quite a
few years later. Let me give you an idea
how many years later. So quite a few
years later. So he's about 23 when that
happens. Finally, at 41,
he becomes an Anglican priest. You get
that? Now, he's 23 when he thinks he
becomes a Christian, and he's 41 when
he's finally an Anglican priest and
believes this stuff. But he points back
to when he's 23 on that boat, when he
gave up all of that, and now he's no
longer that kind of man anymore. He said
in 1764, "I cannot consider myself to
have been a believer until in the full
sense of the word until a considerable
time after that though." Oh yeah, let me
go through it. At 17, he was a slave
trader.
At 23, he became a believer, but he's
still in the field.
At 41, he gave all that up and he is a
priest. At 49, he wrote a song you
probably know, Amazing Grace. At 65, he
wrote a track against slavery. It's his
first effort against the slave trade. Do
you hear that? How long how long that's
been? He's 65 before he does it. At 66,
that song, Amazing Grace, is published
for the first time. And at 84,
hear me? 84
before slavery ends
his work with Wimberforce worked. Do you
hear it?
Do you hear everything I've just said?
I know you want to be all that in a box
of chocolates, right?
Why do you think it's going to take so
long? because you're hard-headed
just like I am. You're as hard-headed as
you come and hard-hearted in places that
we don't even know it. We think we're
where we ought to be and we are
hard-hearted in places that need to be
fixed. And I know you think, well, well,
I become a Christian. I'm different now.
Yes, but understand that takes time to
become the people. 40 years passed
before he really changed about slavery.
Some of you would say he was never a
believer.
What would they say about you?
How about those gaps in your life?
You're telling me when you obey the
gospel that you were clean? I remember
when my father became a Christian and
now he's a Christian, right? And then
about six months to a year later, he
came home drunk as a side again
and we were terrified.
Yeah. How did you do?
You didn't fail.
You didn't slide back. You got it all
worked out, didn't you? No, you didn't.
And you're not there yet.
Don't give up on me yet, Lord.
Don't give up on me yet. Amen. Class,
don't give up on me yet. Right? Ain't
that where you are? Don't give up. But
don't sit there and act like you got it
all worked out. Amen. Don't be like
that. If you really pay attention to
this whole lesson, yes, the spirit
changes us. Yes, that happens. Some of
it's quick. Some of it takes a little
time. But a baby don't get to be an
adult overnight.
If you're here today and you want to
start on that path, we'll help you every
way we can. Repent of your sins, confess
the name of Christ, and be baptized.
Whatever your need is,
