need trunk. So, if you would please uh
volunteer for that, we would be very
grateful. The the community uh really
enjoys it and we'd love for you to be a
part of that. So, please plan to join
us. If you have any questions, see
Bethany or I. We'll be happy to walk you
through it. Uh we've even helped I'm not
volunteering myself for this, but we've
even helped others decorate their trunks
before. So, if you need help with that,
don't let that scare you. Over the last
few weeks, we've covered the ideas of
relational evangelism, your circle of
influence. Two weeks ago, we we covered
credibility and the fact that people see
the change that Christ has made in your
life. And then last week, we covered
visibility, that uh you are the salt of
the earth. You are uh letting the light
of Christ be seen through you. And last
week I said that we were merely a window
through which the world gets to see the
light of Christ. Uh they get to see the
joys of obedience. They get to see the
joys of trust in Jesus. But what I want
us to think about today is what if we're
what if we're more than that? What if
we're more than just a window uh through
which people see? What if we actually
let them in a and let them truly
understand the joy and the peace that we
found in Jesus? And the reality is we
can be credible, we can be visible
but if we are not present uh if we are
not engaged, if we are not active in
people's lives, then our influence, our
impact, uh our ability to share the good
news with those around us is going to be
limited. Right? People uh cannot be
reached from distance.
Social media has a lot of benefits,
right? Uh but but there's nothing that
social media can do to bring people
together. And so our circle of
influence, the community around us, the
world is going to be reached through
proximity.
It's going to be reached through
relationship.
And that's what I want to cover uh
today. I want to look at the
accessibility of the everyday disciple.
And I have three points uh that I hope
will help us to be a little bit more
intentional about our accessibility. So
first accessibility
uh places us where people actually are.
If if we are going to have an influence
for Christ, if we are going to share the
good news, the gospel message with them,
we have to be where people are. Brother
Claus came up to me after last week and
said, "You know, you can't tell if
somebody is salty or not, right? Unless
you taste them. You don't know if
somebody needs salt unless you spend
some time with them. You rub shoulders
with them and you see where they where
they land, right? And so, in order to be
the salt of the earth, you have to be
around people and be with people. And
so, right, this sounds so obvious,
but I don't know about you guys, but
this is one of the places where I I
really struggle. It is possible uh to be
around people. We're around people all
the time. It's possible to be around
people and not be present in their
lives.
And most of us are consistently
surrounded by people, probably more than
than you'd like. I know me, I'm
surrounded by far more uh people than
than I'd often like to be. I always
wanted to be important at work and uh I
I kind of have almost reached that and
I'm realizing it's not all it's cracked
up to be. Everybody's got questions.
Everybody wants answers. I'm in meetings
seven eight hours a day and then I have
to work at night to to actually get my
job done. Uh but we are constantly
surrounded by people at work, in our
neighborhoods, at school events, at kids
activities, around uh the community, but
being around people and being accessible
to people are two entirely
uh different things. I want you to think
most of us, I know kids my age, and I
use that word loosely, kids, uh, but but
folks my age, right, we we kind of have
have rose up through the ranks by by job
hopping, right? But I know some of you
guys are much wiser and you stayed at
jobs for a long time, right? And think
about how many of your co-workers that
you might have worked with for years,
uh, but you hardly know anything about
them,
right? you don't really know them. And
that's my point that you can be around
people without influencing them, without
having an impact, getting to know them.
I mean, how many of you guys I I'll say
this to Bethany and I in our 11 11 years
of marriage. I think we've moved seven
times in our 11 years of marriage. So,
you know, but how many of you guys have
been planted where you're at for 15, 20
plus years and and have neighbors,
right, that you have lived next to for
these 15 20 plus years and you've never
had more or or never had a meaningful
conversation with them,
right? Too often I think we have what I
what I would call these driveby
relationships, right? We we wave. We say
uh we wave at the neighbor. We may say
hello in passing. Uh a few meaningless
words here and there. If you want to
hear something really funny, come over
to the Dutton's house on Monday
mornings. Uh when he does his lawn work
and uh Brother Rodney across the street
does his lawn work. And I'm inside
having calls and I can hear them through
the window and I know exactly what
they're saying. They're just yelling
back and forth at each other. It's
really uh funny, but it's most of the
time it's just meaningless conversation
for fun, right? And so we can attend the
same events, we can see the same faces,
we can exchange the same uh small talk
and not be present in people's lives. So
accessibility is not about proximity.
It's about intentional presence. It's
the difference between existing in the
same space and actually stepping into
someone's life. And we're going to talk
a little bit about that uh even here
within the church just in a few minutes.
And if we if we are honest with
ourselves,
right, we default to convenience.
If we are truly honest with ourselves,
we want to stay in our own routines. We
want to stay within our comfort zone and
we want to keep our interaction surface
level. I don't want to let anyone else
in. I don't want you to let me in
because it takes time. It's not because
we don't care. Uh most of us are going
to say, I use this often. Most of us are
going to say that we're too busy. And if
you uh like to read, I didn't used to,
but now I love to. If you like to read,
John Mark Comr has a really great book
called The Ruthless Elimination of
Hurry. And that has really helped me
prioritize my time. It's helped me
understand where I'm wasting time. Uh uh
but but the reason why we struggle with
this idea of accessibility is because we
have to slow down.
It takes effort. We have to slow down.
We have to engage with people. We have
to invest in their lives. And so it
takes effort and it takes
intentionality.
But I think when we look at the life of
Jesus, right, we see him constantly
placing himself in uh places where
people are, not just physically. He's
not just physically there, but
relationally placing himself in the
lives of the people that he comes
across. He doesn't just stop by or pass
by. He stops. He engages with them. Uh
he enters into their world. He goes into
their homes. He sits at their tables and
our our king made himself accessible to
the people. Do you guys know I'm sure
you do uh the story of Zakius?
A wee little man. A wee little man was
he right in Luke chapter 19. Zakius uh
was a rich man. He was a tax collector.
And the Bible says that he wanted to see
who Jesus was. And he was a little man.
So he ran ahead of the crowds. He
couldn't see over them. He ran ran ahead
of the crowds. He climbs up in a
sycamore tree. And Jesus comes to him
and calls him out of the tree and says,
"Zakius, come down from there. Today I
must go to your house. I must stay at
your house." And so Jesus didn't just
acknowledge him. He didn't just pass by.
He entered into his life. He goes into
his home and he sits with him. And I'll
get there. uh Jesus made himself
accessible
and his presence leads to a
transformation in Zakius's life, right?
Zakius uh commits to giving back uh half
giving half of his possessions to the
poor. He commits to giving back four
times to all of the people uh that he
had defrauded. And in verse 9 of Luke
19, Jesus says, "Today salvation has
come to this house." And we see this
pattern constantly throughout Jesus's
ministry.
A and quite often the the the religious
leaders didn't didn't like this about
him. In Matthew 9, Jesus is reclining at
the table with tax collectors and with
sinners.
In John chapter 4, he initiates this
very long conversation with this
Samaritan woman at the well.
And so Jesus, this same Jesus that we
claim to be disciples of, followers of,
apprentices to, made himself accessible.
He spent time with people. He invested
in the people. And I mentioned this at
one of the very first classes. I believe
Jesus was interruptible.
Yes, he had a mission. Yes, he had a
path. Yes, he had a plan. But when
people came to him, he could stop. He
would stop. and he would serve them and
he might heal them or he might pray with
them. And and and think about it, guys.
I get I just said I'm in seven, eight
hours of meetings all day long, right?
And then I got to work at nighttime to
actually do my real job. I'm not
interruptible,
but Jesus was.
And it was for the benefit of the
people. In John chapter 1, uh the Bible
says that the word became flesh and
dwelt among us. And so God does not uh
reach out to humanity from a distance.
He comes near. He steps into our world
and he has made himself accessible
through Jesus. And so as his followers,
as his disciples, uh we should be
accessible too.
And so many have asked, you know,
practically how do we how do we do this?
What does accessibility look like today?
And it's not it's not rocket science,
right? It's it's slowing down uh long
enough to engage with somebody around
you.
It it's stepping into conversations
instead of trying to avoid them
altogether or or rush out of them.
And it's being available relationally.
It's choosing uh presence uh
intentionally. We're going to talk about
that in a minute, but choosing
intentional presence over our
convenience. And yeah, that that stinks
sometimes, right? But if you even go
back to agape love, right, which God is,
you go back to agape love, what does
that mean? It's to will the good of
another above your own.
And so that's what we are called to do.
Now, I do want to to to preface this,
right? I'm not uh encouraging you to
abandon your wisdom. Right? I'm not
telling you to be naive. We've talked a
lot about uh dealing with our circle of
influence and those we already kind of
know, right? But if you're going to take
this and you're going to go out to folks
that you don't know, maybe somebody at
the the restaurant or or the gas station
that you might see quite often, I'm not
telling you to be naive,
right? Being accessible does not mean to
trust everyone immediately,
right? Uh being accessible does not mean
that you need to ignore red flags about
people.
A and being accessible does not mean
that you have to put your family into uh
unsafe situations. Right? There I want
to just clarify there are healthy
boundaries that exist. Right? And and it
it is okay and or Bible actually calls
us to walk with uh wisdom and
discernment. So, I want to I want to
clarify that and I want I recommend
right meet with somebody, establish
trust over time. Uh meet in public
places, coffee, lunch, if you're going
to go to somebody's house, you know,
maybe you invite a few families.
And don't rush into your vulnerability.
But this is the this is the truth, guys.
And and I mean this this is I'm
extremely passionate about this. Um and
it and it hurts me sometimes. Our
accessibility,
it starts at home. And our accessibility
starts here uh at the church. It starts
with the body of Christ. And too often,
if you I mean, we just had our little
fellowship period, right? Too often,
even here within this building, we stick
to surface level conversations.
Too often in this building, we don't
want to invite anyone in.
too often in this building. I'm too busy
to invest into anyone's life.
But if we're going to be the church of
the New Testament, right, Paul says in
Galatians 6 that the brethren should
bear one another's burdens.
And and I myself over the last year or
two have really tried to to to take this
on
because if we can't bear one another's
burdens within these walls, if I can't
bear one another's burdens within the
the walls of my home, how am I going to
be accessible
and able to do that to everyone else
around me?
If we can't do it here, how do we expect
to do it out there?
And so think about your circle of
influence. Are are you just around them,
right? Are you just passing by? Are you
just, you know, making the small talk?
Are you actually investing in the
people?
And so accessibility, it starts with
presence. It places us where the people
are, but it's going to grow through that
intentional investment. And the second
point here is that accessibility
provides opportunity for intentional in
investment. Presence is where it begins.
Uh we have to be where people are, but
we have to step into their their lives.
And what I've noticed over the last few
years of doing this is that the more
consistent you are with this, and we're
going to talk more about that next week,
the more consistent you are with this,
you are going to gain something that you
would not have gained otherwise.
And what we gain with our consistency,
stepping into people's lives, letting
them into our lives is we actually gain
opportunity
and and we gain opportunity to know
them. We gain opportunity to understand
them. We gain an opportunity to relate
with them and then ultimately we gain an
opportunity to influence them
spiritually.
And so through these genuine
relationships, we open doors that just
being around people can't do.
And these people once we are consistent
and accessible, they start to trust us.
They start to open up to us. They start
to share what's going on in their lives.
And they start to invite us into their
world. in all of this is an opportunity
to begin investing in them in a way that
points them to Jesus.
In Colossians uh chapter 4, Paul says uh
verse 5, Colossians 4:5, "Conduct
yourselves with wisdom towards
outsiders, making the most of every
opportunity."
And Paul is asserting that these
opportunities with the outsiders, with
the unbelievers, is going to come. and
not only that they're going to come that
we should be ready to make the most of
it.
Uh just before this in in chapter 4,
Paul is in instructing the church uh to
be devoted to prayer
and not only to be devoted to prayer for
themselves but to pray for him. And he
says, I believe in verse three or verse
four, that pray that God will open up to
us a door for the word so we can speak
the mystery of Christ.
And I really hope we've stopped with the
emails. The elders aren't announcing it
up here. We we're not posting it on
Facebook anymore, but I hope that you
guys are joining us on Tuesday nights
because every Tuesday night, we pray for
Creekide at 700 p.m. We pray for
Creekide. We pray for our community and
we pray for uh ourselves, for boldness
and for courage and and
we pray for opportunity.
And so if you're serious about wanting
to reach uh the the the community around
us, you're serious about wanting to
share your faith, I encourage you to
join us in that wherever you're at. 7
p.m. Set an alarm. We do it every single
Tuesday and we stop and we pray.
Uh, personally, I pray uh, I pray for
Creekide. I pray that we will be more
spiritually focused. I pray that we
would be more focused on actually
sharing the good news. I pray that we
will put aside the thoughts of the
building and actually focus on being the
hands and the feet of Jesus. I pray for
the community. I pray that God will
soften hearts.
I pray that when opportunities that what
I'm praying for when those opportunities
arise, I pray for ears to hear.
And then I pray for myself. I pray for
you guys uh that that when those
opportunities arise that we have courage
and that we have boldness to stand up
for truth and to actually share the good
news. And we do that every Tuesday at
700 p.m. And and I hope and I want to
encourage you to join us in that. So
accessibility right is going to put you
in a position but we have to
intentionally step into the moment. We
have to intentionally invest into the
lives around us. In Acts chapter 8 uh
the Bible says Saul is persecuting the
church and Philip he goes down to uh
Samaria proclaiming Christ. And on his
way back to Jerusalem an angel of the
Lord comes to him and says Philillip uh
get up go south to the desert road that
descends down to Gaza.
And Philip goes and Philip finds an
Ethiopian unic uh who had come to
Jerusalem to worship and he was in his
chariot and he was reading what we would
call today uh Isaiah chapter 53
and the spirit Bible says that the
spirit tells Philillip to go and join
him in the chariot and what does Philip
do he doesn't think about it
Bible actually says he runs to join him
and he asks asks the unic, "Do you
understand what you are reading?"
We'll get there. And the unic says,
"What is the Unic's response?" Unic
says, "How can I understand this unless
somebody guides me?" Right? Who is
Isaiah talking about? How can I
understand this unless somebody explains
it to me? And the Bible says that Philip
preached Jesus to the unic. and that the
unic was then baptized and saved. And
this reminds me of of 1 Corinthians
chapter 3, Paul says, right in verse 6,
I planted, Apollos watered, but the Lord
gave the increase. Brother Owen and I
were talking about this at breakfast
yesterday, right? Yes, God gives the
increase,
but we still have to plant.
We still have to water. We can't sit
here with our hands in our pockets and
expect the garden to grow.
And so just like this Ethiopian unic,
right, God is working in the lives of
those around you.
And our our our presence, right, creates
an an opportunity. It puts us in a
position. It creates an opportunity. But
we have to take action when we come
across those opportunities.
And I believe if we're faithful to the
commission that we're given in Matthew
28, the Lord will give the increase,
that souls will be saved, and members
will be added to the church. And and and
these these opportunities,
they're they're not big flashy moments,
right? I very rarely are you going to
stumble across somebody in, I don't
know, the Chick-fil-A restaurant who's
reading Isaiah 53 and is like, "Hey, can
you tell me about this?" Right? That's
not that's not uh likely going to
happen. I I believe God can orchestrate
that if he if he wants and if he needs
to,
right? But very rarely are people going
to come across we're going to come
across people who are who are reading
about the prophecy of Jesus's death.
But when we're accessible, when we're
intentionally investing into people,
they're going to start sharing things
with you.
They're going to start sharing with you,
hey man, this has been a really, really
hard week.
Uh, I am very stressed right now. I
don't know how I am going to survive
this.
And then there's our opportunity. And
the action that it requires, right? We
don't just move on. Hey man, really
sorry to hear that. What do you want to
get for lunch today? Hey, really sorry
to hear that. What are you doing next
week? What are your plans for vacation?
No. Ask more questions.
Well, what's been going on? How are you
handling that? Acknowledge their
situation. Man, that sounds very tough.
I'm really sorry that you're dealing
with this. I appreciate you sharing this
with me.
And then point them to God.
Can I pray for you about this? And if
they say yes, pray for them right there.
Not just can I pray for you, can I pray
with you right now about this situation?
Show them your faith. Show them that you
believe that God answers prayers.
I can't tell you um one of my one of my
co-workers, he lives in Charlotte and
and he's just he's an awesome guy,
awesome family, raised in the church and
and it was our second day on the job uh
that he called me. I was expressing I I
had a sermon coming up and then his
father-in-law was going into surgery uh
that day and I was expressing how
stressed I was for the sermon. He was
expressing how stressed he was and his
wife was for uh for the surgery and
there however I don't know a couple
hundred miles apart from from Tampa to
Charlotte via a team's call we stopped
and we prayed right there. He prayed for
me, I prayed for him. The sermon went
well. The surgery was successful and God
answers prayers. And that has happened
multiple times with this same gentleman
since that time. That was the second day
we knew each other.
Be real with them. We're going to talk
about this in a in a in a minute. We're
not much different than them, right? Be
real with them. Hey, you know what?
That's actually something that I've had
to trust God with, too. Hey, that's
something I struggle with that I've had
to pray about. It's okay. Let me show
you what the Bible says and how to move
past this. And then I think this is the
biggest one. And again, this this goes
into next week, but we actually have to
follow up with people, right? Hey, I I
was thinking about what you said last
week. I've been praying for you. How did
that situation turn out? Is there
anything you need? Is there anything I
can help you with? Do my prayers need to
change?
follow up with them and it's going to
show that uh we truly care. They don't
need perfect answers. The world does not
need perfect answers. They just need
people who are present and intentional
in their lives. And and and this is what
I think is going to lead us into the
very last point that we have. And I'm
doing really good on time. Um
and I think this is the absolute most
important. And this was brought to my
attention last week as well after the
lesson.
But people can tell if you genuinely
care about them. People are going to be
able to to sniff that out. They're going
to tell if you have a motive. They're
going to be able to tell if you have an
agenda. They're going to be able to tell
if all you're trying to do is dunk them
under the water so we can get a
statistic and then we can move on.
People can tell. They can sniff it out.
And they can tell if we truly care. They
can feel it. They can sense it. And so
the last thing that I want to talk about
is that accessibility prioritizes souls
with genuine care. The heart of us being
accessible is our heart. Right? It's
it's whether or not we truly care about
people. Not just the situation that
we're in or they're in, but their souls
as well. Right. Yes. We can we can work
and we can serve people. we can meet
their needs, right? I love our
benevolence. I love what we do with the
benevolence, but if we don't go we we
got to go past that, right? Hey, we're
going to serve them. We're going to meet
them in the in in the need that they
have right now. How are we going to
share the gospel? And I'm sure Gante and
them do a great job with that. I've not
been a part of it. Say community events.
We get them on the property. We want to
talk to them. We want to serve them with
a free safe, you know, event. How do we
make a connection with them? How do we
establish with them that we truly care
about them? Not just that they can come
have fun in a safe environment, but that
we care about their eternity and that we
care about their souls. But I think too
often we treat evangelism
as a task. We talked about in the in the
very first week, we treat it as a task.
And I believe we have outsourced it,
right? We've said to the preachers, to
the ministers, to the elders, to the
deacon that runs the evangelism
committee, that's their job,
not mine.
So, we treat it as a task, one that's
not been assigned to me. And when we
approach these lost souls, when we
approach these people, we approach them
and treat them like projects.
I just want to see a difference in your
life. I want something to get better,
and as soon as it gets better, I can
move on. on and I washed my hands. Or,
hey, I want to see you give your life to
Jesus and I'm going to help dunk you
under the water and I'm going to I'm
going to study with you and I'm going to
get you all the way to the point that
you get baptized and then I'm going to
walk away to the next project because my
job's accomplished.
But that's not what the Bible shows.
Even if you go into Matthew 28, right?
Uh teach them my commandments, make
disciples of them. We can't make
disciples in oneandone uh interactions.
This is a lifelong process of me
becoming more like Christ, you becoming
more like Christ, you helping me become
more like Christ, me helping you become
more like Christ. This is a lifelong
interaction of disciplehip
with one another.
And and I believe if we look at the
Bible, we don't see Jesus treating
people as projects. Uh in fact, if you
go to Matthew chapter 9
and in verse 36, Jesus has been uh going
into all of the cities and the villages
and the the Bible says that he was he
was teaching in the synagogues and that
he was proclaiming the gospel of the
kingdom. And it says that he was healing
all kinds of sicknesses and healing all
kinds of diseases. And in verse 36 it
says, "Seeing the people, he felt
compassion for them
because they were distressed and
dispirited and they looked like sheep
without a shepherd."
When he looked out, he didn't just see
people.
He didn't just see projects to
accomplish something and bring salvation
to them.
He had compassion for them.
And that means that he was he was moved
internally
and that he cared deeply about their
condition. And this is the heart of our
influence. This is the heart of our
impact for the kingdom. It's the heart
of our accessibility. It's not just that
we'll give them time. It's not just that
we'll have a presence in their lives.
It's not just that we hope that there's
an opportunity to share it. We have to
genuinely care for people and we have to
genuinely care for their souls.
And it's hard to do that. It's hard to
be accessible.
It's hard to invest in people when I
don't care about them.
And people are going to sniff that out.
They're going to know if you are sincere
in what you're doing. They're going to
know if you're sincere in the message
that you're preaching. They're going to
see that through your credibility,
right? They're going to know if you're
sincere in what you say to them. How
many times, and I'm extremely guilty of
this, how many times have you told
somebody, "Hey, I'll pray for you." And
then you never prayed for them. I'm
guilty.
Very guilty. Right? I Hey, man, I'm
really sorry. I'll pray for you and and
I forget. I'm busy. Life's busy. That's
why one of the reasons why I said, "Hey,
can we pray right now?" And then that
makes an impact on me because we've
prayed together right then and there and
I remember later to pray for them.
And they're going to see this in Romans
chapter nine. Uh Rex was talking about
this today, but at the beginning of
Romans 9, Paul is writing about the Jews
who have not accepted Jesus as the
Messiah.
And he says that he has a great sorrow
and an unceasing grief in his heart. And
he goes on to say he wishes that he
could be a cursed. The NASBY New
American Standard 95 says that he wishes
he could be separated from Christ for
the sake of his brethren.
He's deeply burdened about their
situation.
He's deeply burdened for the sake of
those who do not know Jesus
to the point that he would suffer
separation from his savior
if that just meant they'd come to know
Jesus as King, Jesus as Lord, and Jesus
as Savior. And can can you imagine?
Thankfully, we're not being asked to do
that, right? But could could you imagine
caring so much for somebody else
that you would give up your relationship
with Jesus if that meant they would come
to know who he is,
right? We we'll do anything or most of
us will do just about anything for our
families, right? We'll give up anything
for our families because I care for
them, because I love them. A and that's
the same type of love that we need to
have for the community around us, for
the world around us, for our circle of
influence, for those within our family
who have not come to know Jesus as
savior.
and and could you imagine after all of
these years,
all of the death, all of the sorrow, all
of the grief that cancer has caused.
Could you imagine after all of these
years that it comes out that all along
big pharma has had a cure
and the outrage that we would have with
big pharma. We would be outraged. We
would be probably rioting. we would be,
you know, just causing a scene in in
anger because they for whatever reason
have let people die, have let families
be torn apart, have let uh people suffer
so that they could what? So that they
could profit, whatever, whatever it
might be. And we how could they do this?
How could they have no compassion at
all?
And I want you to realize
that when we refuse to share the gospel,
when we refuse to share the good news of
Jesus Christ,
we would be no different from that
situation.
And I would argue that the stakes are
even higher than that.
Right? Lost souls, they are at odds with
God. They are at jeopardy of an
everlasting death, eternal separation
from their creator.
And we have the cure.
We have the cure. We have the answer.
Right? In 2 Corinthians chapter 5 tells
us that we are ambassadors of Christ.
That we have been uh assigned and
entrusted this ministry of
reconciliation. Not that we've done
anything to reconcile ourselves to God,
right? but that God has reconciled us to
him through Jesus
and we're entrusted with that. We are
entrusted to now go out and tell
everybody else around us that hey, I
have been reconciled to God through
Jesus and you can be too.
And not only have we been entrusted with
it, Jesus Christ, our master, our Lord,
our King, our Savior, has commissioned
us with it. He has called us to it. He
has sent us out to share the good news.
And how dare we keep that to ourselves?
How dare we not want to tell people what
God has done for us through Jesus?
Charles Spurgeon, we'll wrap up here.
Charles Spurgeon says that if sinners be
damned, let them leap to hell over our
dead bodies.
I don't know about you guys, but I uh
from here on out, I'm going to live out
my master's command.
From from here on out, I I am going to
be intentional about my care for the
community and the fact that I want to
see them saved.
Not only do I want to see them saved for
eternity, but I want to see them find
the joy and the peace that comes from
knowing Jesus here on this earth.
And I want their eternity to be safe in
the hands of the savior just like mine
is.
And that means that we have to be
accessible.
Uh accessibility, right? It places us
where the people are. It provides
opportunity for investment and it prior
prioritizes souls with genuine care.
We've talked a lot about this already.
God has placed you in people's lives for
a reason. He is doing his part.
He has done his part. The question is,
are we going to do our part? Are we
going to plant? Are we going to water?
Are you going to be present with those
God's put in your life? Are you going to
recognize the moments he gives you? not
only recognize them, but are you going
to take action in those opportunities
and do it out of a heart of love, of
care uh for their souls? I've said this
before, I'll say it again. You don't
need more knowledge, right? You don't
need the perfect words. We just need to
be present. We need to be intentional.
And we need to show people that we care.
And then when that opportunity comes and
that moment arises, we need to actually
step into it. We need to actually do
something about it. Need to be like
Philillip. And that moment arrives and
the spirit told him to to go up into the
chariot and he ran. He didn't think
about it. He didn't question it. Bible
says he ran to the unic
and the unic was saved. Let's uh let's
go to God in prayer.
Most gracious and heavenly father, we we
are just so grateful uh to have time to
come together uh father and and to learn
more about you, to learn more about who
you are, to learn more about what you've
done for us through Jesus.
Father, we just ask that as uh you've
given us opportunities to to do what
you've called us to do, uh that you'll
help us, that you'll give us strength,
that you'll give us courage, that you'll
give us boldness to
share the good news regardless of what
that might cost us, regardless of a job,
regardless of a friendship,
regardless of a family member.
Father, that we know that your word is
truth and you have called us to share
that with those around us. So, Father,
please uh while there may be
persecution,
while there may be difficult times,
while there may be struggles, uh give us
boldness to step through that,
Father, that we could see that this
world is not our home. We could see that
that what goes on on this earth uh
ultimately is meaningless and that it
will be shaken at the end of time
and that only the righteous uh will
remain. Father, please help us. Uh we
know that we've found righteousness
through your son and it's not anything
that we've done and so please help us to
share that with others. Please help us
to show them that they too can be seen
righteous in your eyes. That they too
can be reconciled to you and that they
too can trust their eternal lives uh in
your hands.
And so, Father, we ask that you'll
forgive us uh when we fail you. Well, we
ask that you forgive us when we fall
short. Uh but Father, we're so grateful
that you are a merciful and gracious
God, and that you've allowed us uh more
opportunity, that you've allowed us
another breath. And so, Father, help us
to uh take advantage of that and to do
what you've called us to do so that at
the end of time on judgment day, we can
hear, "Well done, good and faithful
servant." Father, we love you. We thank
you for Jesus. And it's in his name we
pray. Amen.
have a blessed week and hopefully
