But um
let me go back through. So look, when it
comes to evangelism,
I don't believe there is a method.
If there was a method, it would be in
the Bible.
There isn't a method of evangelism. So
if you have a method that worked for
you, God bless you. If that's working
for you, use it. maybe teach us. Okay? I
mean, because there's nothing in the
scriptures that says exactly how this is
to be done with each person. It seems to
be different almost with everybody. So,
there's no such thing as that. I once
thought there had to be and I was looked
hard for it. I've gone to
Did anybody remember Mid Mcnite?
Anybody old enough to remember Mid
Mcnite? I remember Mid Mcnite coming
through and he taught he taught several
methods. A lot of them were films uh the
slide films. Uh like Juel Miller,
you'all know Jill Miller, but he did
some other ones. He did a few minutes
with someone who loves you. There were a
lot of different things. Uh do you
remember anybody remember Ivan Stewart
and around Ivan Stewart? I never was a
big fan of those those because they were
too yes and no for me. So, I think it
was I didn't like it. It probably worked
fine. I just didn't particularly care
for it. Didn't work with me very well.
So, I wasn't a real big fan of Ivan
Stewarts, but that might work for you.
If you want to use Ivan Stewart's,
great. God bless you. Do you remember uh
her uh uh Bible correspondence courses?
Anybody remember those? I used to sell
those. Uh there was a I think there was
an eight lesson and then a 13 lesson
course. I remember that there were we
used to do a lot of tracks and people
don't read tracks now because they got
too much to read and plenty to look at
as we all know 24/7. So nobody's doing
like reading like they once did and uh
get getting tracks. I've known some
really good guys. I I know personally a
back to the Bible guy and and I'm not
talking about the bo Bobby Bates thing.
I knew the guy that wrote the back to
the Bible things. I met him in South
Africa. Super guy. He's long passed on
to be with the Lord now, but he was
really really good man. Funny as he
could be. But uh I think he wrote about
a hundred of those tracks. So there's a
lot of methods. Okay. So these are this
discovery
uh ones that I have that you know I
introduced them to you last week. You
had that big sheet. So here is just
there are lots of them as you can see.
So, I'm going to leave those up here. If
anybody wants to try a different path
and look at some of these, you're
welcome to it. I I think it's a valid
concept. It's lowkey. At least it gets
you started.
Slam there. You want to look at that,
that's great. So, now I want to again
talk about this back to the Bible thing.
So, I I really think it's a it's a great
method and I'm not sold on everything in
it. It's a little old now and it was
based on the King James, not the New
King James. They've adapted it now where
kind of new King Jamesy, but it was
originally absolutely King James. And
when they did it, it was with the school
uh of preaching. And so they would take
and go out and they would teach and come
back in. They would redo the books. And
that's how that got started. That's how
that got built. He didn't really write
it. It was a combination of everybody
saying, "Well, maybe we could do this
and maybe we could do that." It really
works well. Uh there when Deb and I were
doing it, I'm not in the class much now,
but I think we didn't have one failure
when we went through it with every
everybody we went through. I think
everybody that we studied with that went
through all three books, there's three
books, which is about four, five weeks
worth of studying and an hour a pop or
45 minutes in in our case. We baptized
everybody that went through the class,
everybody.
So, that's the most successful. That's
the reason I say I'm not wild about
everything in it like Ivan Stewart, but
I will tell you it was the most
successful method I've ever used.
period. I have never had one that
successful. So, we're not going to do
away with it. Okay, that's going to
continue in perspective members unless
the elders say, "Nope, not going to do
it anymore." Other than that, going to
keep doing it. Okay? And it's been very
successful.
So, that's perspective members class.
What I'm going to talk to you about
today is why why this?
Why did we do this? Okay, this is the
authority of Jesus, believers in Jesus,
and the cross of Jesus. There's a couple
of different reasons we did it, and
well, really, I did it, I guess you'd
say, but I was helped by about uh a
dozen other people that helped do it,
but I was the one pushed this. And what
happened was uh we were we were getting
in Jesus got us to go into Friends Speak
which I thought it was a brilliant idea.
I I'd not gotten into it. I thought it
was a brilliant idea. And so Friends
Speak, I want to talk to you a little
bit about Friends Speak and and I'd
encourage you if you if you think you
might be gifted in this area, please
consider getting involved in Friends
Speak. We're still trying to do it. We
only got a few people that are doing it
now. Could use some help. We have people
a lot here who speak Spanish and English
is not their first language. Friends
speak would be a great source of help.
So this is what we've done. That that's
what this is about. So moving from that,
we took the Bobby Bait study and
basically adapted it to Friends speak.
That was the idea to make it where
somebody whose language was not English
but was trying to learn English, they
could go from French speak to something
that would be easy to follow in English.
And so that's the reason we use the same
version as friends. Friends speak uses
the easy to read Bible or version. It is
a miserable version. It is it takes
liberties that I'm not comfortable with
at all and it says things that I'm like
doesn't reflect the Greek texts at all
in my opinion. That's just me and I'm
not a Greek scholar but I'm just being
honest with you. But we took that
because that's what they they were used
to and they were learning to read the
book of Luke. That's what they use and
that's where we went with this. So from
back to the Bible prospective members
and now we were trying to include
Friends speak. That was the order of
what was happening. Okay. So this is
Friends Speak. I encourage you to go to
their website, look it up, do a little
homework on that. It is a really great
idea. It's an old idea. I remember when
this was first boy, I was I it was
almost like I felt like I was on the
cutting edge. I was at uh the Tulsa
workshop in the early 80s and at the
Tulsa workshop in the early 80s I was at
a table of some big shots in the church
that I don't know how I got to their
table people you would have known the
names of and they were working in China
and Friends speak big came out of that
trying to teach English in China to
people thinking about coming here that's
kind kind of how this got started. And
so, Friendsp speak. And if you'll
notice, uh I think one of these is a
button, but I don't know. I think this
is it. Is that the button? Yeah, that
right there is how the number one book
they use is Luke. And then they end up
in Acts because Luke kind of writes the
same and it's the same guy. So, that's
how they start it. So, they just use
excerpts from Luke in the easyto read
version and you have a conversation.
It's very low-key. This is what the page
looks like. You see it? It's that's it.
That's like all they would do in a
session. What you're looking at, that's
pretty much it. There's questions, but
it's You see, you go through. So, you
get through, there's some words. You
want to make sure they know what those
words mean. And then, because you're
helping them learn English, you're doing
them a favor. Do you see a lot of
baptisms out of Friendspeak? No.
But what that leads to can be baptisms.
That's the idea behind it and people
becoming Christians. That's it. So
friends speak if you want to get
involved we can get make that possible.
So
I'm going to let you see a little video
now on Friends Speak so that you get a
grasp of it.
Oh,
oh,
heat.
Heat. Heat.
Heat.
Heat. Heat.
1 2 3 4 1 2 3 4
1 2 3
Just wanted to get you a a taste of the
idea. The idea is whether you know it or
not, we're the jewel on the planet.
Everybody wants to come here
and a lot of people are trying.
And
even if you're extremely conservative,
as long as they're coming here legally,
I know you love that.
So the point is is that we need to help
them learn the language. We need to help
them find their feet. They need friends
and we can do that. So love for you to
consider Friends Speak. In connection to
that, these studies were designed for
people who would maybe finish Luke and
yet seemed like they wanted more. And we
could either give these to them or we
could sit and walk through them ourself.
So, I'm going to take this first one and
uh talk to you a little bit about that.
Why do we need to talk about the
authority of Jesus? This is Bobby Bates
all the way down, but we changed a
little bit. we made the emphasis more on
Jesus because that was one of the things
I didn't particularly care about uh in
the bait study that it didn't talk
enough about Jesus in my mind and even
now I'm working on a newer version of it
because I feel like more needs to be
said about who he was how he got there
and I'm I'm working on that right now uh
not there but I'm working on something
right now so why authority here's the
truth so I don't know how many Bible
studies you've been in but when you're
in a Bible study
and you don't establish authority.
Here's what's going to happen. You're
going to be studying alone and all of a
sudden they're going to challenge that
that's not applicable or they don't have
to do that. I know it says that, but I
don't have to do that or that's your
opinion. I don't have to do that. You
don't think that that's what's going to
happen, but that's going to happen. I
promise you that will happen. We live in
a world that especially in America
doesn't care for authority. Doesn't want
anybody telling them what to do. Okay?
that will happen. Now, if you haven't
established that Jesus and his apostles
and his written word is the authority
and matters of religion and our faith
and practice, if you don't establish
that early, the rest of the study is a
waste of your time and theirs. They will
not hear what you've got to say when
they disagree. They will not cooperate.
They won't go along. They'll even get
mad. They'll walk out angry that you
dared try to tell them how or what they
might should do to be right with God.
They won't accept it. So authority
established early is critical in a
country in a nation where authority is
rejected. That's part of the reason for
the lesson this morning. Right? So I
mean that's that's important. So that's
the reason the authority of Jesus
important. Now it is important to get
their data. If you have a study with
somebody, get as much information from
them as you can. Even if they reject you
later, you can always maybe write them a
letter, send them a card. You need to
get their information. But they write it
in their book. And if you're studying
with them with this book, then you write
that information down on a piece of
paper that you keep. Okay? There's going
to be other times in this study. and and
when you're doing the the Bible study
and prospective members there, you need
to have paper with you and you need to
be willing to draw and write some stuff
down. It's critical and we'll get to a
page in in maybe a week or so that
you'll see has to be done. It has to be
done or you won't get anywhere with
them. So, that's important getting that
information, but right now it's just
them and they need to keep it because
that's their book if you're going to
study with them again. Then, so here's
where it starts. Okay? I get my book.
So, you can start and you can either do
one of two things. What I've done is I
haven't written anything in my book. I
just marked it with the yellow. So, the
answers, as you'll see, are actually in
the scripture.
You see those yellow dots? You can't
read them. I know. But you see some
yellow dots on my page. Can y'all see
that? Is that too far away? Wait a
minute. Can you see it now? Anyway, so
uh so I'm going to I'm going to walk you
through it. Let's just we're going to go
through this really quick. So, and then
we'll be done. Okay, we're going to be
done quick. So, the authority of Jesus
and God's word, matters of faith. If
anybody wants to answer this really
quick, remember this is the easy to read
version. So, don't get mad at me when
you see something in particular for the
way around. You will know the truth and
the truth will make you free. So Jesus
says we can be made free by knowing the
truth. Absolutely. Next one.
God is spirit. So the people who worship
him must worship in spirit and in truth.
So Jesus says we worship God in spirit
and in truth. Good good class. All
right. John 17:17.
Make them ready for your service through
your truth. Your teaching is truth. So
Jesus says the teaching of God is truth.
That's right. John 14:23- 24. Jesus
answered, "All who love me will obey my
teaching. My father will love them. My
father and I will come to them and live
with them. But anyone who does not love
me does not obey my teachings." This
teaching that you hear is not really
mine. It is from my father who sent me.
Jesus teaching was from
my father who sent me. Absolutely.
Hebrews 1:es 1 and two. In the past, God
spoke to our people through the
prophets. He spoke to them many times
and in many different ways. And now in
these la in these in these last days,
God has spoken to us again through his
son. He made the world he made the world
through his son. And he has chosen his
son to have all things. I'm sorry. I'm a
King James guy and I keep trying to say
this in King James. Through Jesus, God's
son, God has spoken to us in these last
days. Exactly. John 3:35
says, "The Father loves the Son and has
given him power over everything." So
Jesus, God's son, has been given power
over everything. Matthew 28:18, "So he
came to them and said, "All authority in
heaven and on earth is given to me."
Jesus has been given all authority in
heaven and on earth. Excellent. Y'all
are staying with it? All right, keep
going. in your book. You you're now on
page two if you're writing this or uh
underlining. So John 17 verse two, you
gave the son power over all people so
that he could give eternal life to all
those who have given to him. So Jesus
has been given all authority over all
first line.
So he gave son power over all people.
All right. Of power authority. All
right. Good. It's a it you're going to
see it does that occasionally. Try to
get you to think beyond just one word.
Okay. So, we're to Ephesians chapter 1
20 through 23. I'll try to emphasize it
so you pick it up. He used to raise
Christ from the dead and put him at his
right side in the heavenly places. He
put Christ over all rulers, authorities,
powers, and kings. He gave him authority
over everything that has power in this
world or in the next world. God put
everything under Christ's power and made
him head over everything for the church.
The church is Christ's body. It is
filled with him. He makes everything
complete in every way. So Jesus was
given by God to be head over everything
for thee. Excellent. All right. We're
John 12 and verse 48. Now remember what
we're doing now. We're establishing the
authority of Jesus and God's word in
matters of faith. This is critical. It
may not seem like it, but this I'm we're
going way too fast, but you understand
that. John, if we were in a class, we
would not be going this speed, okay? I'm
trying to get through this material in
the time we have allotted. John 12:48,
but there is a judge for all those who
refuse to believe in me and do not
accept what I say. The message I have
spoken will judge them on the last day.
So Jesus message that he spoke will be
used on the last day to judge them.
Absolutely. John 6 and 68, Simon Peter
answered him, "Lord, where would we go?
You have the words that give eternal
life." So Jesus, not preachers,
relatives, or friends, has the words of
eternal life. All right, we're now on
page three if you're in the book, right?
And in the page three, you'll see a new
title at the top. And it's important to
make sure they understand we're moving
to slightly a different view on this so
that they grasp this whole concept on
authority. So the authority of Jesus
apostles now. So we talked about the
authority of Jesus. Now we're talking
about the authority of Jesus apostles as
they were guided by the spirit. It's
critical in the thinking so that they
get the connection between what Jesus
said and then the scriptures that we
have. John 14 and verse 26 says, "But
the helper will teach you everything and
cause you to remember all that I told
you." This helper is the Holy Spirit
that the father will send in my name. So
Jesus said the spirit would teach and
cause them to remember all he told them.
That's right. Okay. Now we're in John 16
and verse 13. But when the Spirit of
truth comes, he will lead you into all
truth. He will not speak his own words.
He will speak only what he hears. And he
will tell you what happened in the
future. So Jesus said the Holy Spirit of
truth would lead them into all
truth. That's right. All right. So now
we're in Jude 1 and verse three. If you
can say there's a chapter one. Dear
friends, I wanted very much to write to
you about the salvation we all share
together. But I felt the need to write
to you about something else. I want to
encourage you to fight hard for the
faith that God gave his holy people. God
gave this face one faith once and it is
good for all time. So God through Jesus
gave this faith once and it is good for
all time. So it's good for right now,
isn't it? Okay. So that's important
recognize. So this So now we move to a
slightly different view on this
authority thing. So the authority of
Jesus and his apostles
uh word in religion the apostles word.
Now, so we talked about Jesus authority
and now we talked about how the Holy
Spirit was given to the apostles and how
they spoke with authority. So now the
apostles word and matters of religion.
So now John 20:es 30 through31. Jesus
did many other miracles, miraculous
signs sorry that his followers saw which
are not written in this book. But these
are written so that you can believe that
Jesus is the Messiah, the son of God.
Then by believing you can have life
through his name. So Jesus is the
Messiah, God's son. And this was written
so you can
believe that Jesus is the Messiah.
That's right. All right. So Romans chap
10 and verse 17. So we're finding out
why the apostles wrote this stuff down.
So faith comes by from excessy.
So faith comes from hearing the good
news. And people hear the good news when
someone tells them about Christ. That's
a way away from the text. Anyway,
hearing the good news about Jesus Christ
leads to
faith. Absolutely. So now we're in James
chapter 1 verse 21. So get rid of
everything evil in your lives, every
kind of wrong you do. Be humble and
accept God's teaching that is planted in
your hearts. This teaching can save you.
So God's teaching about Jesus planted in
your heart can save you. Absolutely.
Still looking at that. These apostles,
what they're teaching us that Jesus
taught. 1 Peter 1:23, it says, "You have
been born again. This new life did not
come from something that dies. It comes
from something that cannot die. You were
born again through God's lifegiving
message that lasts forever. So God's
lifegiving message about Jesus is how we
are born
again. Exactly. 2 Timothy 3 16 and 17.
All scripture is given by God and all
scripture is useful for teaching and for
showing people what is wrong in their
lives. It is useful correcting faults
and teaching the right way to live.
Using the scriptures, those who serve
God will be prepared and will have
everything they need to do every good
work. So all scripture on Jesus and
right living gives everything we need to
do
good work. Exactly. So that's that's
important. Get that in their mind.
Second Peter 1:3. A lot of the people
you talk to and study with don't have
much of a biblical background in our
world. Now, verse three, Jesus has the
power of God and his power has given us
everything we need to live a life
devoted to God. We have these things
because we know him. Jesus chose us by
his glory and goodness. So Jesus power
has given us everything needed to live a
life devoted to God. Exactly. Page five.
Now we're drawing close. We're almost
done here. Be faster than you think.
We're close. So now we're on, you notice
it shifts again. The authority of God's
word about Jesus Christ. And you need to
talk about these things if you're
studying with somebody on that. The
authority of God's word about Jesus
Christ and how God's commands must not
be altered. So, as we're going through
this idea of that Jesus was given the
authority by the father, father gives
the son, the son now gives the authority
to the apostles. The apostles write down
these words. These are now the
commandments of God. It has authority
over us. That's that's critical and that
you can't alter it. So, you can't sit
there and say, "Well, I don't accept
that part." That's an important
transition in their thinking that has to
happen else they will do that or a lot
of people will. All right. So, here we
are. Oh, sorry. It didn't change it.
That's the one I'm talking about. So
now, Deuteronomy 4:2, this is from the
Old Testament. Still the truth. You must
not add to what I command you and you
must not take anything away. You must
obey the commands of the Lord your God
that I've given you. So God's commands
that give salvation in Christ must be
obeyed. Exactly.
Galatians, this gets small. Sorry, it's
a long one. Galatians 1:es 6-9. A short
time ago, God chose to uh you to follow
him. He chose you through his grace that
came through Christ. But now, I'm amazed
that you're already turning away and
believing something different from the
good news we told you. There is no other
message that is the good news. But some
people are confusing you. They want to
change the good news about Christ. We
told you the true good news message. So
anyone who tells you quote a different
message should be condemned. Even if
it's one of us or even an angel from
heaven, I said this before. Now I say it
again. You have already accepted the
good news. Anyone who tells you another
way to be saved should be condemned. So
grace came by Jesus Christ and any
different message should be condemned.
Exactly. Now Leviticus
10:es 1 and 2. Then Aaron's son Nadab
and Abahu made a mistake. They took
their incense dishes and put some fire
and incense in them. But they did not
use the fire that was on the altar. They
took fire from some other place and
brought it to the Lord. Folks, that part
is not in the Bible. All right. Uh just
that I'm just being honest. It's not in
the original. This was not what it's
true, but it's not in the room. This was
not what he had. This is not what he had
commanded. So fire came from the Lord
and destroyed Naab and Abahu and they
died there in front of the Lord. We must
obey the Lord carefully and do exactly
what he says or commands. Absolutely.
All right. So 2 John 1 and verse 9,
everyone must continue to follow only
the teachings about Jesus. Whoever
changes that teaching does not have God.
But whoever continues to follow the
teachings about Christ has both a father
and his son. Whoever would change the
teaching about Christ would not have
God. That's right. All right. So Matthew
15 and verse 9, the worship of me is
worth. Their worship of me is worthless.
The things they teach are only human
rules. So Jesus said, "Worship of God is
worthless for those who teach human
rules." So we're now to Matthew 7 21.
Almost finishing page five. Not everyone
who calls me Lord will enter God's
kingdom. The only people who will enter
are those who do what my father in
heaven wants. So Jesus said, "Those who
enter the kingdom do what God
wants." Exactly. All right, turn your
page. We're nearing the end here, so
don't give up on me. So now again,
again, there's a little slight shift
here. And you'll notice it's the
authority of the Old Testament versus
the New Testament authority, right? And
this is important. You got to cover this
because somebody will pull an Old
Testament scripture out and they won't
understand the difference. Hebrews
chapter 1:es 1 and 2. In the past, God
spoke to our people through the
prophets. He spoke to them uh many times
in many different ways. And now in these
last days, God has spoken to us again
through his son. He made the whole world
through his son. And he's chosen his son
to have all things. So God formerly
spoke through prophets, but now he has
spoken by his son, right? Matthew 28:18.
So he came to them and said, "All
authority in heaven and on earth is
given to me." You'll notice this is a
repeat of passage. You'll see that from
time to time. Jesus said, "In heaven and
on earth, God gave him what authority."
All authority. John 12:48 passage we've
already looked at again. It doesn't hurt
to review some passages. I know you
think people get it. I've already read
that one. A lot of times you don't. Not
until the second, third, fourth time you
read something. John 12 verse 48. But
there is a judge for all those who
refuse to believe in me and do not
accept what I say. The message I have
spoken will judge them on the last day.
So Jesus said that the message he had
spoken would
judge him on the last day. So it's
critical that we understand what Jesus
said not the Old Testament what Jesus
said will judge you on the last day.
John 1 verse 17 that is the law was
given to us through Moses. He's talking
about being a Jew but grace and truth
came through Jesus Christ. So the law
was given by Moses but Jesus gave us
grace and truth. Hebrews 9:1 15-17
it says so Christ brings a new agreement
from God to his people. He brings his
agreement so that those who are chosen
by God can have the blessings God
promised. Blessings that last forever.
This can happen only because Christ died
to free people from sins committed
against the commands of the first
agreement. When someone dies and leaves
a will, there must be proof that the one
who wrote the will is dead. All will
means nothing. All wills mean nothing
while the one who wrote it is still
living. It can be used only after that
person's death. So Jesus brought a new
agreement or a new testament effective
at his death. Exactly. So now we're
we're draw so we're trying to get this
figured out this difference the Old
Testament New Testament but the work
that has been given to Jesus is much
greater than the work that was given to
those priests the Old Testament. The
same way the new agreement that Jesus
brought from God to his people is much
greater than the old one and the new
agreement is based on better promises.
If there was nothing wrong with the
first agreement, then there would be no
need for a second agreement. So Jesus
new agreement or New Testament is much
greater than the
old agreement. That's right. Number
next, Hebrews 8:13.
God called this a new agreement. So he
has made the first agreement old and
anything that is old and useless, it is
ready to disappear. So Jesus new
agreement, the New Testament made the
first agreement
old. That's right. Acts 13:es 38 and 39.
Brothers, understand what we're telling
you. You can have forgiveness of your
sins through this Jesus. The law of
Moses could not free you from your sins.
But you can be made right with God if
you believe in Jesus. By Jesus, you can
be made right where the law could not
free you from your sins. That's right.
Galatians 3:es 11 through13. So it is
clear that no one can be made right with
God by the law. The scriptures say the
one who is right with God by faith will
live forever. The law does not depend on
faith. No, it says that the only way a
person will find life by the law is to
obey its commands. The law says we are
under a curse for not always obeying it.
But Christ took away that curse. He
changed places with us and put himself
under that curse. The scripture says
anyone who is hung on a tree is under a
curse. So Christ took away the curse of
the law by putting himself under that
curse. Exactly. Colossians chapter 2
verse 14. Because we broke God's law, we
owed a debt, a debt that listed all the
rules we failed to follow. But God
forgave us of that debt. He took it away
and nailed it to the cross. So the law
that listed all our debt was taken away
and nailed to the cross. Exactly. So
we're almost at the end here. Here we
go. So Ephesians chap 2 14 and 15.
Christ is the reason we are now at
peace. He made us Jews. And you who are
not Jews, Jews, one person. So he's
talking about his own people with us. We
were separated by a wall of hate that
stood between us. But Christ broke down
that wall by giving his own body. Christ
ended the law with its many commands and
rules. His purpose was to make the two
groups become one in him. By doing this
he would make peace. So Jesus Christ by
giving his own body on the cross ended
the
law. Galatians might need to read it
again. Y'all weren't on that one.
Galatians 3:es 23- 25. Before faith
came, the law held us as prisoner. We
had no freedom until God showed us the
way of faith that was coming. I mean,
the law was the guardian in charge of us
until Christ came. After he came, we
could be made right with God through
faith. Now that the way of faith has
come, we no longer need the law to be
our guardian. The law held us as a
prisoner till Christ where we're we're
now made right through
faith. Exactly. So, we're almost there.
Romans 7:4. In the same way, my brothers
and sisters, your old selves died and
you became free from the law through the
body of Christ. Now, you belong to
someone else. You belong to the one who
was raised from the from death. We
belong to Christ so that we can be used
in service to God. Through the body of
Christ, you became free from the
law. Yes. Final scripture. In the past,
the law held us as prisoners. But our
old self died and we were made free from
the law. So now we serve God in a new
way. Not in the old way with the written
rules. Now we serve God in a new way
with the spirit. The law held us
prisoner, but in Christ we were made
free from the law. Exactly. All right.
So I I admit that's very kind of in many
ways superficial. Hopefully in your
study you get to talk about these things
more thoroughly. We were rushing today
and that's not good. And I don't
recommend rushing in a Bible study, but
it is essential that you kind of get a
grip on how you might use this if you
want to use these ever, especially if
you wanted to get involved in friend
speak. Want to look now if you got the
biblical evangelism tips. I want us to
look at the this verse, this next verse.
Actually, I want to make it bigger. Here
we go. So, here's what our scripture is
for today to pay attention to on some
tips that we might have. It says uh 2
Corinthians 2 beginning verse 12.
Furthermore, when I came to Troz to
preach Christ's gospel and a door was
opened to me by the Lord. I think that's
what you need to look for.
Look for an open door. God gives us
those. You don't create them.
Did you hear that? You don't create your
open doors. So the all these methods, we
think that we're going to create an open
door. We we can have an opportunity, but
only God creates an open door, an open
door of a heart. That's God's work. I
don't do that. Verse 13. I had no rest
in my spirit because I did not find
Titus, my brother, but taking my leave
of them, I departed from Macedonia. And
now, thanks be to God, who always leads
us in triumph in Christ, and through us
diffuses the fragrance of his knowledge
in every place. So our job is just to do
it everywhere to diffuse the knowledge
of him, the good wholesome truths of the
gospel. And by the way folks, this life
is wholesome. This is sound way to live.
Spread that as far and wide as you can.
Continue reading verse 15. For we are to
God the fragrance of Christ among those
who are being saved and among those who
are perishing. To the one with the aroma
of death leading to death. So I want to
tell you something. Some folks will
think what we teach is stinks to high
heaven. That's okay. Uh that's the ones
who just simply don't want it. And to
the other the realm of life leading to
life. And who is sufficient for these
things? That's not in our purview. We
don't we can only do so much. Verse 17.
For we are not as so many pedalling the
word of God. This is not for sale. This
is not about money. It never can be
about money. It never can be about our
success dynamics. It cannot be that.
It's simply got to be the message. And
you've got to do the best you can at
presenting it. And I'm telling you,
there's a thousand ways to do better
than this particular study did.
And I don't know half of. But you got to
try something. Got to try something. And
I'm trying to give you something that
you could try. And maybe you could give
this book away to a friend and and or
you could sit and study with them,
especially someone who's struggling with
English. It would really be good. So,
that's kind of where we're at. Uh, but
as of sincerity, but as from God, we
speak in the sight of God in Christ.
We're God's watching us. All right. So,
I got one minute left. Questions?
Big question. Come on. I got a minute.
Yes, ma'am.
&gt;&gt; 1012. You said that was not in the
Bible.
&gt;&gt; I could not hear a word. What? What?
&gt;&gt; Leviticus.
Yeah, that's right. No, Leviticus 10 1
and2 is in the Bible. No, you don't
understand. Okay. Uh there's a little
statement. Wait, we get behind the mic.
A little statement. This is true. My
personal belief is they're correct. What
they say here is correct. It's just not
in the text. Okay, they say uh but they
did not use the fire that was on the
altar. They took fire from some other
place. Okay, it doesn't say that they
did not use fire from on the altar. Just
simply doesn't say that. That's not in
the text. It's obvious if you read the
chapter before it that that seems to be
the implication in the text. So, if
you're loosely reading it, fire has just
come out from the presence of God and
ignited the altar. they go get some fire
from somewhere else and start, you know,
making incense. So, that seems to be
correct that they didn't get the fire
that God sent them. They got fire from
somewhere else, right? That seems to be
correct. But it never says that in the
text. It says that they did what was not
commanded. That's it.
Okay, that's what I mean. Now you
beginning to see what I mean by my
uncomfortableness
with the easy to read version. Take some
liberties I'm not real comfortable with.
&gt;&gt; Yes.
&gt;&gt; On that beginning of of how it is in the
in the ABC's book with that translation,
it says that they made a mistake in the
opening part of that and then that you
know uh God brings judgment on them at
the end of it. And I think one of the
things with that that's important too is
to
be able to address that because for some
they may view that that you might be
studying with they may view that as a
scenario where they just made a boo boo
right and that's not really what
happened right and and that is also an
area where in this translation it adds
in a little bit that's not really there
in the text so the only reason I bring
that up and I I know this isn't the
whole point of what we're talking about
this morning. But the reason I bring
that up is can you talk about the
importance of being prepared to address
uh inconsistencies with certain
translations with the actual text and
how to address that with someone who is
new to the scriptures or or uh immature,
right, or young in their understanding
of it.
&gt;&gt; Yeah, that's a good point. And that will
come the more you use any particular
method and the more you repeat those
particular passages. Whether you're
looking at the King James and it
mentions the word Easter or whatever,
you know, as you're walking through
that, you know, the word Easter is not
in the Greek. So that kind of thing, you
run into stuff like that, okay? And it's
poorly poorly worded or poorly
translated or it just mis it's easy to
misunderstand it sometimes. If you were
to draw a graph, okay, if you draw a
graph a and you translations, this is
the way it goes. Accuracy versus
readability. accuracy, readability. The
more accurate it it gets to the Greek,
the more unreadable it becomes because
we don't speak Greek. And the more
readable it becomes, the less accurate
it becomes. Just like if I'm quoting you
and I don't use the same words you use,
you know, I can misquote you. Okay. Yes.
We don't want them to
mistake. God's given back from death as
opposed to a deliberate sin.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. I wouldn't in fact I wouldn't say
what I said a minute ago. That was for
you.
That was for you because we're very
accurate people. Okay? We're the church
of Christ. We believe in being accurate.
Amen. Yes. That's just who we are. Very
meticulous. Okay. I'm three minutes over
and that was not my fault. I had I gave
you one minute.
All right. God bless you.
