Now, since we're uh talking about the
coming kingdom tonight, you're going to
see the questions. Um I saw this parable
and I thought it seemed to fit and uh I
think you'll enjoy this. Apparently,
there were three medieval uh kingdoms
and they were all around the shores of
this one lake
and there was an island in the middle of
the lake and they all three kingdoms
tried to claim the island was under
their protectorate or it was theirs and
it belonged to them. Well, that went on
for years and finally the three kingdoms
decided that they would have their
knights do battle over the island and
the winner would take the island.
And so the night before the battle, all
the knights and their squires pitch camp
uh around uh the lake and readied
themselves for the fight. The first
kingdom uh was represented by 12 knights
and they each had uh five squires uh all
of whom were busy polishing his their
armor, getting them ready for the fight
and brushing the horses and cooking
food. The second kingdom had 20 knights
and they each each knight had 10 squires
that served them. So everyone in this
kingdom uh was also preparing for
battle. They were cooking. They were
polishing armor. They were getting
ready. The third kingdom apparently was
much smaller. Uh they only had one
knight and one squire.
And the squire took a large pot and he
hung it uh from a loop in a rope in a
tall tree and then he busied himself
preparing the meal and the knight spent
his time polishing his armor getting
ready. So the next day uh at the hour of
the battle uh the knights looked around
and said you know this doesn't this is
not an important battle. Uh we're not
going to go out to fight. we'll send our
squires out there to fight. So the
squires go out to fight. This is too
trivial for them. And the the battle
raged and and when the dust finally
cleared, uh the only person standing was
the lone squire from the third kingdom
and he had defeated all the other
squires from the other two kingdoms.
Thus that square he proved that the
square of the high pot and noose is
equal to the sum of the squares of the
other two sides.
Pythagoreum thought that was good.
Whereas the square of the hypotenuse is
equal to the sum of the square uh
squares of the other two sides. Or if
it's a right triangle, a square plus b²=
c^2. Those you love math, you you should
like that. All right. So, we're looking
at three question. I'll tell you why it
looks like that this was uh one person.
You look at the third one. It says a
thousand-y year millennial of Revelation
20 and verse one. And inter relationship
of these three. So, it sounds like one
person turned these in. So, those are
the the three questions we're looking at
tonight. Um the weeks of Daniel 9:24.
So, you might want to turn in your
Bible, uh, Daniel 9 24, but we're going
to read more than that. And then you
might hold your finger at 1
Thessalonians 4:13, then we'll get
around to Revelation 20 and verse one,
Lord willing, all of that. So, weeks of
Daniel 9:24,
um, Daniel 9:24-27 is what I'm going to
read. Verse 24 says, "70 weeks are
determined for your people and for your
holy city, to finish the transgression,
to make an end of sins,
to make reconciliation for iniquity, to
bring in everlasting righteousness, to
seal up uh the vision and prophecy, and
to anoint the most holy." Continuing on,
verse 25. Know therefore and understand
that from the going forth of the command
to restore and build Jerusalem until
Messiah the Prince, there shall be 7
weeks and 62 weeks. The street shall be
built again and the wall even in
troublesome times. And after the 62
weeks, Messiah shall be cut off, but not
for himself.
And the people of the prince who is to
come, shall destroy the city and the
sanctuary, and the end of it shall be
with a flood until the end of the war.
Desolations are determined. Then he
shall confirm a covenant with many for
one week. But in the middle of the week,
he shall bring an end to sacrifice and
offering, and on the wing of
abominations shall be one who makes
desolate, even until the consummation
which is determined is poured out on the
desolate. So obviously, I'm going to
give you the best that I understand
about this, which may not be what you
understand, and that's okay. We can talk
later if you want. So first the thing
that you need to pay attention to is the
abomination of desolation or the
abomination that makes desolate. Uh it's
talked about in chapter 11 of Daniel
verse 31. Matthew 24:15.
Uh Jesus speaks about that. He also
speaks about in Mark 13:14. In Luke
16:15, it becomes clear that the
abomination is the Roman uh occupation
combined with uh that makes desolate.
The abomination that makes desolate is a
combination of things. It is the Roman
occupation plus Jesus crucifixion plus
the Caesar's uh armies that end up
destroying uh Jerusalem makes desolate.
The house of Israel thus rejects Jesus
and is left desolate. That's the idea.
Matthew 230 uh 23:38, Luke 13:35, Luke
21:20.
So the time period seems to be the
following. 70 or 77s are weeks of years
which equals 490 years from the time
that Daniel is writing these things. 7
weeks therefore would equal 49 years for
rebuilding Jerusalem, which is pretty
much spot on.
uh the 62 weeks would equal 434 years
for rebuilding until the Messiah. So
that equals 69 weeks. So 69 weeks is 483
years to the Messiah's coming.
Therefore, then there's left one week.
It's the 70th week. The 70th week would
be seven years. So each day is a year.
And the Messiah confirms the covenant
for seven years. And you say, well, how
is that possible? His ministry was 3 and
1/2 years. So half of that or 3 and 1/2
years is the Messiah is cut off at the
end of 3 and 1/2 years. We would call
that his crucifixion. But it comes, it
results in the end of the sacrifice. So
the purpose of the temple even existing
is gone. And so literally the purpose of
sacrifices has been replaced. And then
the latter half the three and a half
years involves the abomination that
makes desolate or the abomination of
desolation. And therefore that's the
destruction of the city, the sanctuary
and the future prince comes and destroys
it. The Roman Caesar Tiberius Favius uh
Vaspa Vaspatian's uh son. So basically
what you have is uh two three and a half
year periods. one for the destruction of
Israel fully, which would take place uh
in a way that would make it clear that
God had dealt with Israel and because he
uh Israel had turned their back on the
Messiah, that God was turning to the
gentile world, not just to the Jews
anymore. And we've done some study about
that to the book of Mark if you've been
paying attention lately with Sean. So
the ultimate spiritual achievements
occur within the 70 weeks. Um and that
ultimate achievement is combination of
these teachings
uh of Isaiah 53, Galatians 3:13,
Deuteronomy 21:21-22,
and then of course 2 Corinthians 5 21
and then 1 Peter 3 and:e 18. Now what
you see in all of that is this Isaiah 53
is Jesus is prophesied that he would die
in our place. Galatians 3:13 says that
he became a curse for us. That comes
from Deuteronomy
21 uh 21 and 22 where if you die on a
tree you're cursed of God. Of course,
Jesus wasn't a curse, but because he
died that way, scriptures have to be
fulfilled. So, 2 Corinthians 5 and verse
21 has to be true that God made him to
be sin for us who had done no sin. And
that way, 1 Peter 3 and:e 18 makes it
clear the just died for the unjust. But
because he was actually just, but
declared unjust, the unjust could be
declared just. So, that's uh how it
happened. So in that process, he
basically finished the transgression. He
made an end of sin. He made
reconciliation for all the iniquity. He
brought in everlasting righteousness. He
sealed up the vision and the prophecy,
which means basically everything that
had to be done was done. And then the uh
most holy was anointed talking about
Jesus himself. So the prophecy prophecy
of Daniel is foundational both to the
Jewish faith and to the Christian faith
and to esquetology and that proving the
time of the Messiah, his cross, Israel's
destruction and the establishment of the
kingdom, the spiritual kingdom that we
are in now was resolved. You probably
would struggle to follow everything I
just said. That's okay. If you want to
study further, if you want a fuller
notes on that, be happy to do that.
Okay, so that's Daniel's prophecy. The
second part of the question was the
rapture of 1 Thessalonians 4 and verse
13. So we'll read it. I'm going to read
13-18, which is through the end of the
chapter.
But I do not want you to be ignorant,
brethren, concerning those who have
fallen asleep. He's literally talking
about the dead. Lest you sorrow as
others who have no hope. For if we
believe that Jesus died and rose again,
even so God will bring with him those
who sleep in Jesus. For this we say to
you by the word of the Lord that we who
are alive and remain until the coming of
the Lord will by no means precede those
who are asleep. For the Lord himself
will descend from heaven with the shout,
with the voice of an archangel and with
the trumpet of God. And the dead in
Christ will rise first. Verse 17, then
we who are alive and remain shall be
caught up together with them in the
clouds to meet the Lord in the air. That
word caught up in uh Latin is the word
we get uh rapture from. And thus we
shall always be with the Lord.
Therefore, comfort one another with
these words. So, what is that teaching?
Is that what it's teaching? Well, this
confirms a few things we all need to
accept. That is it. It is to comfort
those who were bererieved who thought
that if the coming of the Lord was
imminent, it would only apply to those
who are alive. The coming of the Lord
does not apply only to those who are
alive and applies to us all. And you
shouldn't worry about those who've gone
on before us. They're not going to be
left out of the plan of God.
uh the Lord will descend to earth, it
suggests, and then the dead in Christ
will rise first in the sense of that
before any of the rest of this happens.
It may mean also that the dead in Christ
rise before the wicked because the way
it reads in uh John chapter 8, the
living believers will be caught up, that
is raptured to meet the Lord. That's
obvious. will meet the Lord in the air
and the believers will be with the Lord
forever, which should be a great comfort
to anybody who's lost loved ones. That's
really what Paul's driving at, the
comfort to those who lost loved ones.
He's not really trying to create a new
doctrine about a rapture or anything
like that. He's really trying to spell
out that concept. But because of this
passage and a few similar not very many
uh this view that this is a supernatural
rapture that removes the church before a
so-called tribulation period and they
believe in this pre-tribulation. I
talked about this a week or two ago.
Others see it as a part of this general
resurrection and Christ's glorious
second coming. By the way, I want you to
know that that is the majority of all
that believe the scriptures to be
inspired of God. The vast majority by a
long stretch do not believe in the
rapture and pre-tribulation thing. But
preerttrib people believe that the
rapture holds a that a rapture happens
before the great tribulation removing
the church and then uh emerges
u to when Christ comes back. But uh this
actually did not even exist as a thought
until the 19th century. So in the 1800s
uh post-tribulation rapture, if you
could call it that, is interpreted as
the happening at Christ's coming, the
general resurrection, and the kingdom.
The idea of us meeting the Lord in the
air is like 99%
of those who claim to believe in Jesus
believe in that. So that's what's
generally believed. It's what I believe.
I don't really believe in the other the
pre-tribulation rapture thing. You may
believe in it. Be glad to talk to you
about it. Not going to get into it any
deeper than that right now. Number
three,
thousand-y year or millennial of uh
Revelation 20 verse one. Uh there are
those I've heard people talk about this
in a way that I don't really agree with
it even in the church. So, I want to try
to be as specific as I can be here so
that we're absolutely honest with the
text. Uh, there are people say that
Jesus doesn't even appear in the text.
Well, that's not really being honest
with the text. If you go to Revelation
19:13,
those of you who have interest in this
sort of thing, pay attention. And um,
oh, I'm not even flipping through these
things properly. Sorry. Revelation
19:13.
uh his name is called uh the word of
God. That's obviously Jesus, right? Uh
if you look at verse 19, same chapter,
the kings of the earth and the armies
gathered together to make war against
him, that is the word of God, who sat on
the horse and against his army. So the
idea that Jesus isn't engaged in what
happens in 19 and 20, that's not what's
represented at least in the the the
whole uh prophetic utterance. Now, you
can make out what you think it means
about that. You can have your opinion,
but the idea that Jesus isn't engaged in
this, that's not rational and it's not
being honest with the text. Um, now
we'll go to the text that's actually
being quoted here. Revelation 20:es 1-6.
Verse one says, "Then then I saw an
angel come down from heaven." That's
after this thing with Jesus fighting
with the people. Then I saw an angel
coming down from heaven having the key
to the bottomless pit and a great chain
in his hand. He laid hold of the dragon,
that old serpent of old uh who is the
devil and Satan. So you shouldn't
misunderstand what he's talking about.
And bound him for a thousand years.
Okay? Whether literal or spiritual or or
metaphorical. Verse three, uh, it's
going to appear, by the way, the word
thousand-year appears like four or five
times in the next couple of verses.
Verse three, and he cast him into the
bottomless pit, shut him up, and set a
seal on him, so that he should deceive
the nations no more, till the thousand
years were finished. But after these
things, he must be released for a little
while. Verse four. And I saw thrones and
they sat upon them and judgment was
committed to them. Then I saw the souls
of those who had been beheaded for the
witness to Jesus and for the word of God
that is Jesus uh who had uh not
worshiped beast or his image and had not
received the mark on their foreheads or
on their hands. And they lived and
reigned with Christ. Remember Christ was
returning the end of uh Revelation 19.
And then they lived and reigned with
Christ for a thousand years. Verse 5,
but the rest of the dead did not live
again until the thousand years were
finished. This is the first
resurrection. Again, there's a doctrine
of people who believe that even John is
talking John chapter 5, I think it said
8 minute ago. John chapter 5 uh talks
about two resurrections. Philippians
maybe talks about two resurrections and
Thessalonians may be hinting at two
resurrections. And so, uh, the first
resurrection, verse six, uh, people who
don't interpret it that way usually
refer that to like baptism or something.
Verse six, blessed and holy is he who
has part in the first resurrection. Over
such the second death hath no power, but
they shall be priests of God and of
Christ, and shall reign with him a
thousand years. So, let's just walk
through this and um and then I'll try to
give you the best understanding that I
have. If you stop at about chapter 18,
right at chapter 18 is the fall of
Babylon. If we're going to take this as
absolutely literal events that are
coming in the future, not metaphorical
events or events that have already
occurred, then this Babylon thing is a
message about Babylon originally, which
had one language. They were one nation.
There was one capital and they were all
about wickedness, one wickedness. So the
idea is just an imagery about that.
Whether that's what happens at the end,
that the world all ends up in one
nation, one language, one capital, one
wickedness, I couldn't tell you. But
anyway, here's here's what he unveils
now in this, if you just follow chapters
19 and 20 and then 20 and 21 and 22. So
basically, here's what it seems to
suggest. the coming of Christ,
the binding of Satan, the reign of
Christ. Now, I was taught, I don't know
if you were taught this, the curse of
Jeaniah and when I was trained,
uh, some of you looking at me like
you're seeing nothing, don't know what
I'm talking about. So I'd encourage you,
I'm not going to spend a lot of time on
this, but if you go to Jeremiah 22:es
24-30, there's a curse placed upon Konai
or Jeconiah
uh who as a result of that was written
childless.
Okay? And so Jeconiah
uh did not have children. He was like 18
or 19 when he was taken away into
Babylonian captivity. He was made a unic
and that we even have a history of that
from Babylon. So basically he had uh no
children.
And so uh how could Christ therefore be
a descendant? And well here's the thing.
The prophecy says that no child of Konai
or Jeanile would ever sit on the throne
of God and reign in Jerusalem. Well that
absolutely did happen. He had no
children. So no child sat on the throne.
The problem with then well then of
course Jesus does not descend from him.
Actually he does from the same family.
Uh the resolution is simple. It ensures
that Zerubbabable
remains a biological grandson of
Jeconile while bypassing the curse
that's mentioned. Uh stating that no
descendants of Jeaniah would prosper on
the throne. So some people try to argue,
well Jesus could never sit on the throne
in Jerusalem because it violate this
Jeaniah argument, but you've missed the
point of what the prophecy was about. It
wasn't to do that. uh established a
legal line of succession through seial.
And this legal and biological foundation
is crucial for the genealogies of Jesus
because Jesus does descend legally and
ethically from Zerubbable. And the way
that happened is the thing that they all
used and it was very common through
Bible days, maybe even before Bible days
is the Leverite marriage laws. So the
lineage of Jeconiah did continue and
Jesus is a descendant of that. However,
not a direct son of Jeaniah would ever
sit upon the throne. So that wasn't
possible because he was fixed where he
could have children. The next thing that
occurs in this text is the final
judgment. You probably know this, the
great white throne. The next thing that
happens is the new creation. So that's
the last few chapters of this book.
You're going to have to make out what
you believe about all that. I'm not 100%
on what I believe about all that. Uh so
here are some views about the thousand
years. There are those who believe in a
pre premillennial uh reign, if you will.
They believe in a future literal
thousand-year earthly reign of Christ uh
following a tribulation period and
Christ's return before the millennial.
Then there is and this was taught
predominantly a lot of our brethren uh
Campbell Alexander Campbell believed in
amillennialism and this view is that the
millennial is symbolic as of the current
church age where Christ reigns
spiritually from heaven with no literal
earthly reign except that as it further
along it goes it becomes that and if you
really follow what he believed he
believed that it would eventually be
that The postmillennialism, it believes
that Christ returned after a golden age,
a millennial, where the gospel gradually
transforms the world, which is very
similar to the amillennial view until
the world literally is the kingdom of
Christ. Okay. So, uh bottom line of all
of that is that the uh I don't 100% uh
know what I think about what I some of
the stuff I just said.
If that makes you happy, I hope I hope
it makes you happy because I don't know
100%. Um, so here it is. Weeks Daniel
9:24. Absolutely. Did it happen?
Absolutely. Just like it said it.
Absolutely. Just like it said it. 1
Thessalonians 4:13. Um, that's going to
happen. And like I said, 99.99% of all
people who claim to be Christians do not
go with the rapture view. You may think
that they do. you have been mistaken and
you have been misled. Majority do not do
not believe that. And uh so bottom line
is majority believe that the Lord comes
back and we meet him in the air. That is
the majority view by a long shot. The
last question is is about the
thousand-year reign. U I know that
Alexander Campbell believed that it's
going on now. Uh I know a lot of
brethren who believe that. Personally, I
don't know. I don't know.
I know that's probably disappointing,
but I don't know what to think about it.
And uh some of you want to straighten me
out on it. I'd be happy to listen.
You're welcome to straighten me out. Um
lest we think and and and I think that's
the reason I'm using this illustration
next because I feel kind of dumb telling
you that. Honestly, I do. I do. Sorry. I
feel dumb that I can't answer the
question. You want to know and I want to
know. I'm sorry, but less we think that
we are absolutely unique and we're deep
religious thinkers and um this made me
feel better. Um Meister Echart who lived
between 1260 and 1328
was a German Dominican frier, theologian
and mystic.
uh he had profound and direct teachings
on finding God within the soul
and through what you might call radical
detachment,
spiritual
poverty
and he was into experience the ineffable
uh godhead. Ineffable means too great to
express or to even be able to disclose,
which is what I believe. It's so great
you can't even express it.
He said basically things that influence
both what we would call orthodox
Christianity and some modern uh seekers.
It was considered though mystical
insights what he taught. He taught an
inner path to the divine which would be
challenging religious institutions that
he wasn't 100% confident in yet
simultaneously holding the position that
the authority was within the bodies of
Christ and that we should listen to
them. But he faced because of his
position he faced heresy charges.
He spoke of a divine unity beyond the
trinity
of an unspeakable
from which creation flows. Something
that cannot be described
cannot be expressed.
He said that the goal is to become one
with God and the knower
where the knower and the known end up
being unified.
To achieve that he said you do it by
emptying yourself of things.
This is his his thinking. He believed
true
poverty
means desiring nothing,
knowing
nothing
and possessing
nothing.
even spiritual concepts. Try not to be
too smart.
Allow God to fill the void.
That the soul has a timeless, spaceless
center where it can directly encounter
the divine that can't be explained any
other way.
He tried to practice not a withdrawal
but a freedom from his own self-will
and attachment to the outcomes that he
felt like should happen. He wanted to
have a freedom from that allowing the
soul to be a pure vessel for the divine.
Now his beliefs have resonated across
religious traditions all of them. It's
been kind of interesting. He's
influenced medieval mystics, but a lot
of modern thinkers. I've got a list here
of quite a few, even the Daly Lama.
Buddhists have read his stuff and been
amazed. But his most famous quote sets
me stunned now because what I'm trying
to tell you is this guy sound like he
really was good and deep and thought
and now he sounds goofy.
That's what I just said. Here's how he
sounds goofy.
A famous quote is, "My Lord told me a
joke and seeing him laugh has done more
for me than any scripture I ever read."
I don't know. That just sounds goofy to
me. Okay. So what the reason I say all
of that to me that makes a really good
illustration of no matter how deep you
get, no matter how much you study, and
no matter how much you think you know,
there are people who
if you talk to them might appear to know
as much or more than you
and might appear to be as deep or deeper
than you are.
And yet every person I've ever run into
is goofy at some point. I'm not trying
to be rude.
There are people mock me about Bigfoot.
I mean, they're just goofy at some
point.
So, the fact that I may be goofy sounded
on some of the points that I've talked
about here. So, what is the answer?
It's good to stretch our minds.
Absolutely. these questions. I wouldn't
have asked, you know, offered to answer
questions. It really is good,
but everybody's a little goofy in their
thinking
at some point.
So, don't abandon, when I say all that,
here's where I'm going with that. Don't
abandon the simplicity of Christ.
Paul said in 2 Corinthians 11:3, "But I
fear, lest as the serpent deceived Eve
by his craftiness, so your minds may be
corrupted from the simplicity that is in
Christ."
Maybe I can't answer all your questions,
but 1 Corinthians 8:1 says, "Knowledge
puffs up, but love builds up."
So, let's love the Lord the best we can.
I wish I could answer all your questions
and and resolve everything. Some of the
things that have been asked in this
whole series, I wish I knew the answer
better.
And it's not like I haven't studied it.
I've studied these things, but I'm just
trying to be real honest, which makes me
sound goofy.
Any of y'all goofy at any point out
there? Maybe. Maybe, just maybe, it's
okay to be a little goofy as long as we
find the simplicity of Christ. If you're
here tonight and you haven't found
Christ in your life, the rest of it, no
matter how smart you are, don't matter
how many degrees you have behind your
name, you're not too smart. You're a
little goofy. If you want to come and
find Christ and I will help you every
way we can while we stand and while we
