So, uh, the questions we have tonight
are, uh, well, I don't have them up
there. Look, hell, do. So, that's the
questions up there. I was wanted to
point out something about dads. Dads,
you know, it's not always easy to answer
some of the questions you get from kids.
So, that's reason I think dads have dad
jokes. I was reading across these. Maybe
you can get them. What's green and
pear-shaped?
A pear. Uh, how do you make a tissue
dance?
Put a little boogie in it. Uh,
what's brown and sticky? A stick. Uh,
what's an astronaut's favorite part of a
computer?
The space bar.
Why do bees have sticky hair?
Because they use a honeycomb.
How many apples grow on a tree?
All of them.
What do scarecrow Why do scarecrows get
promoted?
They're outstanding in their field. Yes.
So, yeah, here are questions. Uh Luke
16, first one we got. And like I said,
I've got four down tonight, but we may
stop with three. It just depends on the
time how we're doing there. Um, so the
first question I got Luke 16, rich man
and and Lazarus, uh, is it literal,
physic, uh, metaphorical or prophetic?
Uh,
you may not like my answer, but here we
go. Literal. Yes, it's literal. It has
to be considered to some degree literal
because it has literal people in it. Has
a literal person called Abraham. It has
a literal person called Lazarus in it.
No other parable in the scriptures
actually has a name in it, little less
two real names. So, you've got to kind
of see it as literal. Uh, Hades is a
literal place with literal gates as we
find out from Jesus in uh Matthew 16:18.
So, literal has to be taken that way to
some degree. Uh, you can't ignore that.
Beyond accepting it as somewhat literal,
you've also got to consider that it's
metaphorical as well. It needs to be
considered metaphorical because part of
Hades and Gehenna uh are a a valley west
and south of Jerusalem is also a
symbolic name for the final place of
punishment of the ungodly. And I've
given you uh the scriptures. Let me see.
I've given you the scriptures for that.
Well, here we go. giving you the
scriptures for that. U an interesting
dialogue goes on in Judaism about the
subject that I just mentioned, Gehenna.
The Jews describe this is a spiritual
place, Gehenna. And usually translated
as hell, but better translation
according to one uh rabbi I was reading
after is the supernatural washing
machine because that's how it works. I'm
just reading his words now. The way our
soul is cleansed in gehenn is similar to
the way our clothes are cleansed in a
washing machine. So it's a type of
purgatory in their thinking. Uh the
shemmites uh believe that that's true.
They say this in the last judgment day
there shall be three classes of souls. I
don't know where they get this. The
righteous shall at once be written down
for life everlasting, the wicked for
gehenna. But those whose virtues and
sins counterbalance one another shall go
down to Gehenna and float up and down. I
guess like in lava. I don't know what
they've got in their mind. And up and
down until they rise purified. For of
them it is said, I will bring the third
part into the fire and refine them as
silver is refined and try them as gold
is tried. That's Zechariah 13:9. That's
what not what I think that's talking
about, but I I thought it was
interesting. You would appreciate it. Uh
Eli uh they similarly believe it, but
not exactly the same because they never
agree. He says, "He who is plenteous in
mercy," uh talking about the Lord God,
Exodus 34:6, "Inclines the balance
toward mercy and consequently the
intermediates, whoever they are, do not
descend into Gehenna. Still," and then
goes on a comment made by this rabbi,
still they also speak of an intermediate
state. So my point is simply that
metaphorically, yes, there's probably a
great deal of metaphor being described.
If you go back and you read the
prophetic utterances in Jeremiah
particularly about Gehenna and so we
tend to want to see it as only literal
but it might be seen metaphorically as
well it also in this particular story
prophetic that was the other part of the
question could it be seen as a prophetic
utterance and there is the sense in
which it may be I'm I'm probably one of
the few that actually believe this so uh
you don't have to agree with me right
here at all not that you agree with me
about much of anything sometimes But uh
the story that's undergirling this is
the story of uh John 12 1-8 uh Matthew
266 6-14 Mark 14-10
and Luke I believe Luke 7:26-50
most people don't believe those are
parallel but I do believe Luke 7 is a
part of it so I think it's in all four
of the gospels told slightly differently
but the story of Mary coming and um
using um her um her alabaster box and
expensive perfume and pouring it on
Jesus out of a sign of gratitude and
maybe even guilt um and reason being
that it was u Lazarus her brother who
had just been raised from the dead and
um it may have been a case of a change
in her but it upset Judas to no end and
uh maybe his father because according to
John 6:71 John 12:4 4 in John 13:2 and
26, Judas was the son of Simon. If it's
the same Simon as Simon the leper that's
being talked about in that text makes a
unique situation. So Simon the leper, a
Pharisee, becomes Judas's father. And
then it suggests if the if it's to be
seen that way that Lazarus being dead is
the is what the story is prophetic
utterance about. It may be a warning to
Judas who would not believe even though
he was raised from the dead. interesting
parallel to that. They won't believe
even if one was risen from the dead and
it it becomes literally true with Judas
and Lazarus, which is really an odd
thing to happen. So, could it be
prophetic? It could be a prophetic
utterance God's giving through Jesus to
uh Judas to warn him. uh and maybe he
was the oldest of of six brothers and he
had five brothers still at home and he
would be dead soon because he was going
to commit suicide and that's how he
ended up there. Anyway, just interesting
parallel just maybe a message there for
him. So it could be prophetic but I
couldn't prove that. Interesting study
though. Okay, so number six. So I don't
think that probably made you happy but
could it be all three? Of course. I
think you should take it literally and
then I think you should by me take it
metaphorically and yeah maybe
prophetically. Okay. Third se second
question. Sorry it's much longer
question. Uh academic textbooks in
schools and in science for years when
referencing dinosaurs had read quote for
millions of years or quote millions of
years ago. Calculating the timeline
through scripture from creation through
the flood to Christ ascended to present
is between 6 to 10,000 years. How do
Christians reconcile this information
for what is taught academically
academically versus what is taught
through scripture? Number one, I do not
feel any responsibility for making
academia happy with the Bible. I don't
think there's any requirement on my part
to prove the scriptures to anyone or
anyone out there. But I do understand
that there are a lot of people that have
a problem with it. But again, you
remember I'm the guy that talks about
paradoxes all the time. So I may not
know the answer. So just because I don't
know the answer doesn't mean there isn't
an answer or that there isn't a full
explanation. But we can walk through it
for just a moment. Maybe take a look at
some of this. So u we'll look at
science. I think we need to look at what
science is first of all. the systematic
study of the of the scripture of the
structure, excuse me, not the
scriptures, of the structure and
behavior of the physical and natural
world through observation,
experimentation, and the testings of
theories against the evidence obtained.
So that's what science is supposed to
be. Okay. But who would argue with
observable science if you were a
scientist? Well, like life coming from
non-living matter which has never been
observed. So science tells you that we
came from non-living matter.
It's never been observed. That's not
scientific.
So maybe I'm not always theologically
correct, but that's not scientific. Who
would argue with experimentation and
reproducible science uh like kinds of
animals becoming other kinds of animals?
Never been observed. There's no method
known that that could happen. We have no
example of it that we could actually
prove that. And yet that's what's
believed.
But that's supposed to be science. Who
would argue with testing theories
against the evidence of science? Like
logic arose from chaos.
How does that happen?
How does logic arise from chaos?
I don't know. I that doesn't sound
scientific. And yet, if logic did not,
according to scientific means, arise
from chaos, then you've got a question
as to whether or not we can trust
anything we think, any reasoning we have
or anything science gives us. We should
question our own wisdom. We should
question math. We should question
getting in your car and going home
tonight. You have no guarantees how what
made you think it works. Okay? So unless
there is logic and if it is logic, how
did logic arise from chaos? Scripture on
the other hand, let's talk about that
for a moment. Um, so in scripture, uh,
we might question the meaning of what
God uses in creation story. I'm going to
talk about this in a couple of weeks, so
I don't want to talk about it too much
here, but I will will point out uh, you
know, people want to use the day thing.
I do think it's important to recognize
that the word day is used several
different ways in Genesis chapter 1 and
two. Uh it is you you should at least
recognize that because it's definitely
true. It's used five different ways or
uh in just a few verses. It's not used
the same way. So uh the word for day,
we'll get into that another day, but
bottom line, it it's just like any other
word. It can be used context determines
how it's used and what it means. So here
are the various meanings of the word day
from Genesis chapter 1. If you want to
go down the poetic use of the word of
Genesis 1 and you could do that and I'm
okay if you believe that if you believe
it's poetic and it wasn't meant to
explain something that our minds could
not conceive of anyway and it's just
giving us a brief overview. I'm okay if
you want to believe that. Personally
that's not what I believe but you can go
down that path. Okay. So day the first
meaning of day is daylight. Genesis 1:5
the light was called day. Also in five
the the daylight and the dark is called
day. So the daylight's called day and
the darkness and the night's called a
day. So that's two meanings. And then
one day uh it says day one and then it
says the second day. Uh you wouldn't
notice this to read this in English but
that's different way of reading in the
Hebrew. Normally that's not what you do.
If you're going to do second, you
normally do first. And it has a word for
that. But it didn't use that. It goes
one day and then it goes second day,
which is an interesting thing. Doesn't
necessarily mean anything, but it's
using day in a different sense. Uh and
then of course the fourth way is in
verse 16 because in verse 16, the moon
and the sun's added. So definitely
whatever a day was before that is
slightly different because there was no
sun or moon. So now we have a sun and
moon. So now we got a day with a sun and
moon. Well, how'd you have dark and
light? I have no idea. I wasn't there.
Don't get mad at me. I didn't write this
stuff. This is just what I'm reading.
Just like you and yet there was no sun
or moon until the uh verse 16. And then
Genesis 2 and verse4 uses day a fifth
way. And that is in the summary of the
entire creation. It says in the day that
God created the heavens and the earth
and completed the work of it. So that's
a summary of the whole thing and we use
day like that. Your day will come, you
know, we have songs, right? So I mean we
use day like that. So could it be taken
in a different way? Sure. Um we might
question the materials of God's creation
related to age. What do I mean by that?
Okay. Uh maybe clay's eternal.
I don't know. Maybe clay that he made
the world out of is is material that's
been sitting around here for billions of
years. I don't know. I don't know
anything about it. You say, "Well, no,
no, no. He created all those things."
Actually, let's read what the Bible
actually says because I know everybody
wants the word created to mean to make
something from nothing. But that's not
what the scriptures indicate happened.
Okay. Uh Psalm 90:2 says, "From
everlasting to everlasting, you're God."
So, whatever God is has been there
forever. So I guess if you could test
his material, if there was such a thing,
then you would find that he was
billions, trillions of years old,
right? Okay. But wait, Hebrews 11:3
says, "The things that were made were
not made of things which are visible."
So did you hear that? So this stuff was
made of stuff.
Do you hear that? That's what it's just
said. Hebrews
11:3
this it was made of things that are
visible but it was made of stuff.
So that kind of there something that he
started with that I don't know anything
about never seen that he made the stuff
that is seen. Is that supported in
scripture? Yeah. Um let's go to Hebrews
12 27. The things which cannot be shaken
will remain. So there's stuff
undergirling all this that cannot be
seen and cannot be shaken. It's eternal.
Is that really true? 2 Corinthians 4:18
says, "Things which are not seen are
eternal. The things which are seen are
temporary."
Okay, so that kind of kind of throws a
little monkey wrench into this concept
of when God created, he made everything
from nothing
and he took nothing and he made
something.
That's not exactly apparently what
happened. in Romans 9 20 and 21. Don't
get don't get me any deeper in that
because if I want to tell you I don't
know any more than what I just said and
I I really am already over my head right
I'm just trying to make it out that some
of the aging thing may be because of
stuff we do we physically don't
understand as to why it might appear
old. Uh Romans 9:20 and 21 um he has the
power of the clay out of the same lump
to make this or to make this or to make
this. That's the reason I mentioned
about the eternal clay. Maybe there is
such a thing as an, for one of a better
word, an eternal clay.
And out of that same lump of eternal
clay, he made Neptune.
And out of that same eternal clay, he
made the sun. And out of that same
eternal clay, he made you and me. I
don't know. I don't know how he did it.
Wasn't there. Uh well, except in the
sense of whatever I'm made out of might
have been. So then there's that other
question, okay, of uh how do hammers and
wheels end up in
uh underground and turned into stone?
How does that happen? So I mean there's
a lot of questions we could ask about
the materials that exist today. Uh those
things just baffle me, too. We might
question the methodology of God's
conversion attempts with his word
because his word does things.
I'm trying to stay in this the scripture
itself.
God's word is true. God's word does
things that we're surprised at. Romans
10:17, faith comes by hearing and
hearing by the word of God or the word
of Christ. Hebrews 4:12, the word of God
is living and powerful and sharper than
any two-edged sword, dividing the sun
between soul and spirit. Okay? So this
word is powerful and yet it's not
tangible
in the normal sense, especially when
it's believed. John 16:8, he will
convict the world of sin. This is the
Holy Spirit giving us the word. And John
6:44 says, "No one can come to me unless
the father who sent me draws him." We
assume that's through the word. So
here's the deal. The Bible is true. John
17:17, "Thy word is truth. It comes from
God." 2 Timothy 3 16-1 17. All
scriptures God breathe.
And God can't lie. Titus 1 and verse
two, we know that whatever it's written
is 100% true. He can't lie. So who could
argue with his authority? 1 Corinthians
15 24-28, he has the authority. In fact,
Jesus will render back up the authority
that he's been assigned. So, he has all
the authority to do it however he wants
and to explain it however he wants. And
we've not found anything else in the
scripture to be wrong. So, your question
is is
comes to me like this. Are the days
literal? How old is it? And it doesn't
matter to me. And I don't feel compelled
to get too deep into it. I'm not a
scientist. The Bible is not a book of
science. It is a book of theology and
you should take it as that. And God has
never lied about anything.
That's about where I'm at. That may not
make everybody happy, but it uh was the
only answer I could give and think of.
Okay, so there it is. Uh let's get to
Oh, look at all that. Let me go to the
next one. Where we at? Number three. How
could we explain to someone from another
church why we do not use instruments of
music? Well, this is the way I like to
explain it. May not be the way you would
like to explain it, but it's it's it
works for me really well. There's two
principles that govern all of life and
worship. There's the normative
principle, which governs all of life,
and then there's the regulatory
principle that governs all of worship.
The normative principle, and by the way,
you use this principle whether you know
it or not. And you do live your life
according to the normative principle
whether you're willing to admit it or
not. And you do not live your life
according to the regulatory principle
whether you're willing to admit it or
not. So listen carefully. This is
absolute truth. This is the way we live
our lives. And yet denominational people
will try to make the the normative
principle the worship also rule and it
can't be. So normative principle is the
Christian theological principle that
teaches worship in the church can
include those elements that are not
prohibited by scripture. So if it's not
forbidden by scripture, they can do it
in worship. If you believe in the
normative principle for worship, then
you can do it. If you believe in the
normative principle, you can add
instruments in it. If you believe in the
normative principle, because it's not
forbidden. It's not directly forbidden.
There's no sentence structure in the New
Testament says, "Don't you dare play a
piano." That's true. That's absolutely
true. Uh when dealing with man, we
follow the normative principle. What is
that principle? Romans 4:15 is the
normative principle. Where there is no
law, there is no transgression. If the
Bible hasn't forbidden it, it's not a
sin. Right?
Romans 5:13, sin is not imputed. Where
there is no law,
that's how you live your life.
That's not how we worship.
That is how we live our life. Uh when
dealing with man, whatever is not
forbidden, we consider to be authorized.
So going over the speed limit is
forbidden but not directly, right? How's
it forbidden? Romans 13, we're to submit
ourselves to the laws of the land. So
that's how it's forbidden, but it's not
forbidden directly. There's nothing in
the scripture says don't you dare go,
you know, 70 in a 50 mph zone. But you
know, it's wrong because the other
principle. So those are that's how we
deal with each other. But if you are in
Germany and some of the streets in
Germany, you can go any speed you want,
right? Okay. So that's true. uh where
there is no law. Now the regulatory
principle goes like this. Let me move it
down the line. Get to it.
Regulatory principle goes like this. The
Christian theological principle that
teaches worship of God is based on
specific scriptures and nothing ought to
be introduced into worship unless there
is a specific sanction of scripture. In
other words, what isn't absolutely
authorized is forbidden. The normative
principle is what isn't forbidden is
authorized. The regulatory principle is
what isn't absolutely authorized is
forbidden. It's just that simple. Why?
Why do we follow that? And who came up
with that? Well, it looks like the one
that I don't know exactly who came up
with these arguments, but I know it
supersedes the restoration movement. I
know that at least goes back to the
Presbyterians. I believe it goes back to
some forms of Catholicism even before
that but probably wasn't sused out until
the uh Presbyterians
began to make these arguments and we
thought I guess that these we came up
with these arguments but we churches of
Christ didn't it was before us uh in
Genesis in as far as the restoration
movement is concerned in Genesis 4:4 and
5 which is the story of Abel and Cain as
you well know uh in Hebrews 11:4 uh we
find that Abel did what was of faith.
And so we make the argument from Romans
10 and verse 17. Since faith comes by
hearing, hearing by the word of God,
then Abel was doing what God had
apparently told him and Cain was not
doing what God had told him to do. And
that's why his offering wasn't accepted.
So that's a mild form of it. But then we
get over to Leviticus chapter 10:es 1
and two. And you know the story of Naab
and Abayu in the last verse of the
chapter before is when they had just
dedicated the uh tabernacle. And as you
know they killed the red heer. They've
anointed everything with the blood. And
then after that's all done the last
verses of that chapter fire comes out
from God ignites the altar. You remember
this? So it's literally I don't know
where where it comes out from God.
Whether it comes out from the temple or
comes out from heaven I don't know but
fire comes and ignites the altar. Okay?
And so NaB and Bahu get uh the Jews
believe got too emotional. But anyway,
whatever happened to them, why they
thought this was a great idea, they went
and got fire from somewhere else that
they hadn't been told to do and did what
was not commanded. It literally says
which he had he hadn't commanded them to
do it. So they take their little sensors
and start flinging them around and fire
comes out from God and burns them to
death. right there.
So, they got from that is don't add your
own little thing. Uh God doesn't want
you to do that. And a pretty good
decision, I think. And then it's
supported couple of different ways. In 1
Chronicles 13:10, 1 Chronicles 15:2, we
have Oza. Oza who's just walking along.
They're moving the ark. And this is
after the Philistines had had it long
enough and it killed a bunch of people
there. And they're moving the ark back
to Israel and they put it on a cart.
It's probably the same cart that they
that the Philistines sent it home on.
But anyway, they're moving it on a cart
and they went across some rock or
something and it looked like the ark was
going to fall off as a thought. He
reached out, grabbed it and touched it
and he died.
They were not moving it the way the
Bible had said to move it. Such a simple
thing. And he died from it. It sounds
like God was serious
about how you deal with him and his
things.
And then in 2 Chronicles 26-
21, you have Isaiah, the king. He got
lifted up with a little bit of pride.
Not a little bit of pride, a lot of bit
of pride. and he goes into the
tabernacle and he starts offering
incense. He is not a priest. He's not
even supposed to be in that section.
Nobody was ever supposed to be in that
section except the people who are
authorized, the Levites and the priests,
right? They go in there. He goes in
there, starts offering this, and they go
in and tell them, "You you're not
supposed to be in here." The priest goes
in there and tells you you're not
supposed to be in there. You're
certainly not supposed to be doing what
you're doing. And he got mad at him.
And before they got through that
conversation, leprosy broke out on his
head
and they said, "You got to get out of
here." And he was like scared to death.
He was a leper till the day he died.
It's like God don't want you messing
with his worship. Whatever he said to
do. And so when he he told Moses, you
make it like the pattern that I left
you. You saw it. You saw the pattern,
Moses. Make the tabernacle accordingly.
So now when we get through all of that,
then we kind of conclude that this
regulatory principle must apply to when
we're dealing with God.
When I'm dealing with man, the normative
principle, if it's not wrong, we go do
it. Play golf. Horrible thing to do, but
you can do that. What a waste of time.
Hit a ball and chase it. But anyway, so
not as bad as some sports, but pretty
bad. So
you could do it.
But when it comes to dealing with God,
this different rule kicks in. Whatever
is not authorized becomes forbidden.
New Testament instrumental music is not
authorized. That's where we're at now.
It's not. Instruments of music were used
in worship under the Old Testament, but
only at events. See, most people think
that that was regular. No, it was only
at special events. And especially uh it
was not used in the synagogues, the
meeting houses. It was not. And the
meeting houses, people say, "Oh, this uh
synagogues weren't even authorized in
the Old Testament." Folks need to read
their Bible. Go to Leviticus chapter 23,
read first three verses, you'll discover
that synagogue worship was expected to
be the predominant way of worshiping.
And the predominant way of worshiping
all through the Old Testament was not at
the temple, but was at the synagogue
wherever they lived. And in that
situation, they never use instruments of
music all through the Old Testament.
Now, that's not paid attention to.
Nobody pays attention to that. And that
only changed about 500 years ago, even
among the Jews to this day. And not all
of them still do it. So, instruments of
music were not used in worship after the
cross of Christ. We know that. Ephesians
5:19, Colossians 3:16. We know that the
early church did not use instruments of
music, but rather they used the
instrument of their heart and they made
melody in their heart. Now, why did they
do that? You can make any argument you
want. You don't have one, and I don't
either. Here's what we do know. They
didn't. That's what we know. They
didn't. You want to come up with an
argument, you go right ahead. You can
suck one out of your thumb just as good
as I can. Here's what we know. For the
first thousand years the church existed,
it was called ac capella music. Why was
it called ac cappella music? Ac capella
means the music of the church. That's
it. Of the chapel. That was it. That's
what they did. They had no instruments
for the thousand years. It isn't that
they didn't have instruments.
Instruments existed all the way back to
early times in Genesis. So, there's
always been instruments.
They didn't have them. Why? Well, they
were only commanded to sing.
It looks like that's what they did. And
that's what we've done.
638.
All right, I'm not going to do the
fourth question. I know that's the one
you probably wanted the most. It was the
best one of all, but and I had the best
answer on the fourth question. Oh,
that's great. We'll get it, but going to
miss it. I'm sorry. Okay, so those are
the questions tonight. I'll just add
that one in another time. Um, I want to
end with this. Brian Graaser, Hollywood
producer of such movies as Apollo 13.
You remember that? They're about to go
back. Okay,
I think that's cool. Going back to the
moon. We'll see. Uh, Splash and, uh, A
Beautiful Mind. You might remember that
movie. Here's what he said about
curiosity.
I like this. More than intelligence or
persistence or connections, curiosity
has allowed me to live the life I
wanted. And yet, for all the value that
curiosity has brought to my life and
work, when I look around, I don't see
people talking about it, writing about
it, encouraging it, and using it nearly
as widely as they could. Curiosity seems
so simple, innocent, even. Labrador
retrievers are charmingly curious.
Corpuses are playfully mischievous and
curious. A two-year-old going through
the kitchen cabinet is exuberantly
curious and delighted at the noisy
entertainment value of her curiosity.
Every person who types a query in the
Google search engine and presses enter
is curious about something. And that
happens six million times a minute.
Every minute of every day. curiosity.
So, asking questions is a good thing.
Trying to find the answers to things is
a good thing. If I haven't answered your
question, feel free to disagree or want
to talk more. We'll be happy to do that
anytime. But here's the thing about
Jesus. If you haven't noticed it, as you
read your New Testament, pay attention
to this. He habitually piqued curiosity
in others.
He phrased things in a way to see if
they would wake up.
Would they stop? Would they ask a
question? You know, external and audible
questions are not as important though as
those internal
questions that we all have. And we need
to we need to be asking ourselves, am I
right with God? Do I need to make a
change?
Is there something I should be doing
that I'm not doing? Yeah, those are
great questions. If you're here tonight
and those are the questions been going
through your heart, we'll help you every
way we can if you'll come while we stand
and while we
