So last month uh the beginning of of the
month right we had uh the the lesson on
hope uh unshakable faith and hope uh was
the name of that one where we spoke on
Jesus life right uh faith in Jesus life
produces hope in Christlike living faith
in his death uh produces hope in
justification and then faith in his uh
resurrection produces hope in eternal
life and this lesson uh while it it kind
of follows the same idea which is the
overarching theme of hope. Um, but it is
a little bit of a of a more difficult
one, right? Because this one uh focuses
a little bit more on some some struggle
and some suffering. And I I I want to
draw attention to uh the scripture that
was just read right from from Daniel.
And really the kind of punchline that
that we're taking for this lesson is but
if he does not, right? And and again,
let's let's go back and just read that
that 17 and 18. Um we won't read the
whole thing, but the king comes. He he
he's t talking to them about what's
going on, right? And this is the reply.
If it be so, our God whom we serve is
able to deliver us from the uh furnace
of blazing fire. And he will deliver us
out of your hand, O king. But even if he
does not, let it be known to you, O
king, that we are not going to serve
your gods or worship the golden which
you have set. Right? So that's kind of
where um our our focus is is going to
be. Um so based on the scriptures that
we went over the last time, speaking on
hope and speaking on our faith, right? I
I feel that we came to a pretty good
understanding that the promises of God
are irrevocable, right? He God is
faithful. He will not go back on his
word. We have hope in that through even
just the scriptures that we read showing
that he hasn't. Um right the example of
the promise of the rainbow for the flood
and we've never had a worldwide flood
again. Right? God is faithful to his
promises and those promises are
irrevocable. Um and through that our
hope is secured. Right? If if he doesn't
go back on his promises and through his
son like we studied last month, we are
promised and the hope of eternal life
that hope is secure. Uh but there are
things that come in this life, right?
There are things that you and I
experience
that the Bible might not specifically
mention an outcome,
right? That it might not be one way or
the other.
And that's tough, right? because we can
look for it and we can search for the
answer. Um, but there might not be a
promise on that. God might not touch on
it too much or he might touch on it, but
you might have pretty good examples of
it going this way and going that way.
And so, while uh these things might not
be um explicitly outlined, right, God is
still good in every outcome. And God can
still make good in every outcome, right?
It's kind of like the the verse uh you
know, all things come together for good
to those who love God. It's not saying
that everything in your life is just
going to be peachy by loving God, but
rather that even through the good and
the bad, all things can be made for good
through God.
We all know the saying, right? God is
good
and all the time God is good, right? So
uh that is that is very true and and we
can see that even in the midst of
suffering and struggle when the answer
might be but if he does not. So uh real
quick I just kind of want to go on an
outline of the history of where we're at
right now just to kind of give a paint a
little picture as to the uh text that
we're in. So for that you kind of have
to rewind a little bit. So sure we're
all familiar with the Exodus right?
Egypt. Moses is is uh given the um
spoken to at the bush and given the
direction to go and free God's people,
right? To free the Hebrews from the
Egyptians. A little bit of fight, but he
goes uh and he is on his way and then
they God through Moses rescues the the
Hebrews from the Egyptians. And this is
all kind of placed roughly in the 13th
century uh BC. So
take them out, they cross over the uh
the sea and then they are out in the
wilderness, right? Where they eventually
are brought uh to Cinai and Moses is
given the law, the Torah. Uh and the the
law of God in itself outlines the
importance of obeying God's law. Uh if
you have your Bibles and you want to
turn to Deuteronomy
chapter 28,
for the sake of time, I'm kind of going
to skip the verses. So we'll be reading
uh from Deuteronomy 28 verse 1 7:15 and
25.
So not 1-2. You're welcome. Um but
Deuteronomy 28 starting in in verse one.
Now it shall be, if you diligently obey
the Lord your God, being careful to do
all his commandments, which I command
you today, the Lord your God will set
you high above all the nations of the
earth. Skip down to seven. The Lord
shall cause your enemies who rise up
against you to be defeated before you.
They will come out against you one way
and will flee before you seven ways.
Skip down to verse 15.
But it shall come about, if you do not
obey the Lord your God, to observe all
to do all his commandments and his
statutes, with which I charge you, that
these curses will come upon you and
overtake you. Now, there's several of
them, but we're going to skip down to
25. The Lord shall cause you to be
defeated before your enemies. You will
go out one way against them, but you
will flee seven ways before them, and
you will be an example of terror to all
the kingdoms of the earth.
I'd say that following the law that God
put out is pretty important, right, to
this group of people.
So obviously they did it, right? They
didn't always follow the law. There's
several examples and and situations in
which they they go into captivity. The
me next next like major exile or
captivity uh was to the Assyrians in
roughly 7:22 BC which was then followed
by Babylonian exile uh which or
captivity which is around 597
and then Daniel himself through one of
the dreams um prophesies of even more
exiles right he mentions uh Babylon but
then also uh the Meo Persians the
Macedonians or the Greeks and eventually
leading to Rome and Romes, right? And by
exile and captivity, not in every
situation is it exactly the same as like
the Egyptians where, you know, you think
of just the chains and the whips and
beating them and just work and labor all
the time, but you know, some of them
could have been equated to thinking of
like the Rome uh who is the governing
authority over all of them, right? They
still had some uh ability to do the
things that they wanted to do, but
overall ultimate authority and who they
answered to as far as a governing
authority here on earth was Rome. Um so
that was the the kind of the way that it
went. But he's not the only one. Uh
Jeremiah among many others prophesied of
the impending rule of the Babylonians.
Uh however, like many of the prophets,
the uh Hebrews did not listen. So
Jeremiah uh chapter 25
8-11 will tell us this.
Jeremiah 25
starting in verse 8. Therefore, thus
says the Lord of hosts, because you have
not obeyed my words, behold, I will send
and take all the families of the north,
declares the Lord. And I will send to
Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, my
servant, and will bring them against
this land, and against its inhabitants,
and against all these nations
roundabout. and I will utterly destroy
them and make them a horror and a
hissing and an everlasting desolation.
Moreover, I will take them the voice of
joy and the voice of gladness, the voice
of bridegroom, the voice of the bride,
the sound of the millstones and the
light of the lamp. This whole land will
be a desolation and a horror and these
nations will serve the king of Babylon
70 years.
They were told it, right? But they still
uh did not obey. So then obviously we
can see here by Jeremiah what he told
and then also just from the uh book of
Daniel itself that Nebuchadnezzar was
the king who was reigning at this time.
Now historically Nebuchadnezzar is known
as a powerful leader uh and also he is
uh known as a great builder. Fun fact,
it is argued that he is uh potentially
the one who uh is responsible for the
building of the hanging tower or hanging
gardens of Babylon. Right? So, if you're
familiar with any um if you're familiar
with any ancient world uh ancient
wonders of the world could have been
him. Uh and that was for his Midian
wife. But God gave the Jews uh over uh
under the Jews king at the time was uh
Jehoakim. And then they were given to
Nebuchadnezzar. And Nebuchadnezzar later
replaced Jehookim with uh King Zedekiah,
right? If you're familiar with that,
which is his Babylonian name. And that's
all in Kings 2. And then uh if we go
back to Daniel chapter 1 and 2, right?
So this is in the third year of the
reign of Jehookim, king of Judah,
Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, came to
Jerusalem and besieged it. The Lord gave
Jehookim, king of Judah, into his hand
along with the some of the vessels of
the house of God and brought them to the
land of Shannar to the houses uh to the
houses of God and to the houses of his
god and he brought the vessels into the
treasury of his god. So that was the
king then. And then just a quick side
note on names which I always find really
interesting is that we remember Daniel
right based on his uh Hebrew name.
Daniel was was his Hebrew name. Uh the
name that was given to him by the
Babylonians uh was Belchesar, Beltesar,
something along those lines. But it's
funny because we remember Shadrach,
Meshach, and Abednego on their
Babylonian names and not on their Hebrew
names, right? the names that were
formerly given them uh whenever they
were children which is uh Misha or
Haniah, Mishael and Azeriah
respectively. But I just find that easy
like interesting. For the sake of the
lesson, I'm going to refer to them as
Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego because
we all know that. But um I just find
that that really interesting that we we
kind of take on the their Babylonian
names, the names that would have been
given to them by the people who took
them captive uh rather than their actual
names. But Daniel's of course we you
know it's Daniel.
So um we can see right that we read that
Nebuchadnezzar had that typical
narcissistic kind of leader personality
built up a golden image. It doesn't
explicitly say what that was but there
is you know thoughts that it could have
been an image of himself. Maybe it was
of one of their gods. Who knows? But
regardless, it was what he built and
he's a king and you're going to do what
he says and and that kind of
personality. And then we know that Raj,
Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego did not
uh that they did not yield to that uh to
that threat. And then of course the
famous rebuttal uh that we have. But in
the s in the saving of the three, right,
the glory is for God. So let's let's
look at uh Daniel chapter 3 at the very
very end there.
Daniel chapter 3 at the very end we can
see now obviously the rest of the story
we didn't read but just for a reminder
they don't do it. They're thrown into
the furnace. They live and then the king
is very much like whoa you know what
what just happened. Like it was very
hot. There was an extra person in. So
the angel of the Lord has come. Right.
So here we are. Nebuchadnezzar responded
and said, "Blessed be the God of
Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, who has
sent his angel and delivered his
servants, who has put their trust in
him, violating the king's command,
yielded up their bodies so as not to
serve or worship any god except their
own god." Right? So, he is now
recognizing, "Hey, there's something
different about this god, the god of
Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego,
compared to the gods that I had served."
Skip over to chapter 4, starting in
verse one. So now the king is
acknowledging God. Nebuchadnezzar the
king of to all the peoples, nations, and
men of every language that live in all
the earth. May your peace abound. It has
seemed good to me to declare the signs
and wonders which the most high God has
done for me. How great are his signs and
how mighty are his wonders. His kingdom
is an everlasting kingdom, and his
dominion is from generation to
generation.
This is because of the work that was
done in God through Shadrach, Meshach,
and Abednego, right?
But remember what they said, right?
He is able, right? He can deliver us
from this furnace. He can deliver us
from your hand. But even if he doesn't,
we're still not going to listen to it.
And then God
saved them. He did deliver them.
and the glory goes back to God. So,
we're going to look at three ways today
that that the phrase um but if he does
not can apply in our lives to help us
carry on, right, that hope and that
faith in God. And we're going to do it
in a way that uh we're going to look at
the three and then we're going to look
at Jesus. So, number uh point number
one, if you're writing anything down,
God can deliver us from authorities,
but if he does not, he is still
sovereign. It's a lot to write down.
I'll let I'll read it again to you. God
can deliver us from authorities,
but if he does not, he is still
sovereign. Right? So, that's coming from
the verses that we just read. Um, right,
Nebuchadnezzar, who can deliver you from
my hand? He's the authority. He's the
king. He's the governor uh of what where
they are right now. And then they say,
"Our God whom we serve can deliver us
from the furnace. He can deliver us from
your hand." And then we can see in
Nebuchadnezzar's rebuttal, right? His
kingdom is everlasting. God is
sovereign. And we're so blessed here in
America, right? I mean, well, we're
blessed in America, but we're also
blessed in the time period uh in which
we live, right? for the vast majority of
the Christian
time, right? So, I guess what 2,000
2,000 years plus a little bit now. Um,
persecution, right? Very hard living.
Not fun living uh a faithful life and
some of the things that people had to go
through. And you know, we're just so
blessed to not even be able to really
fathom it in a lot of ways. I mean,
maybe if you've been been overseas,
maybe if you've been somewhere that it's
not the case. Um, but I mean, every
single Sunday we we come and sit here at
this building and to my knowledge, we've
never had any government officials
rushing in here, right, pulling Rex out.
You know, that it doesn't happen. We we
live in a country where we are able to
worship and where we are able to come
together and we're able to stand out on
the corner of the street with a picket
sign and a microphone or speak with
people at college campuses or put out a
podcast or go on national television and
say the name of Jesus Christ, right?
Declare our faith.
Try to show others the hope that we have
that we would love for them to have.
And that's it.
Right? Sure, there might be people who
disagree. We might get hurled insults,
but true true like persecution to the
point of death, we're very blessed here,
but we shouldn't be naive to the rest of
the world, right? Because unfortunately,
there are places where that's not the
case. We could I mean, see that on the
news, you see it on, you know, Facebook
or wherever you go. There's plenty of
places that those who declare their
faith in Jesus Christ are killed.
They're tortured, right? They're taken
from their families. They're they're
they're
spread apart.
And that's not, you know, well, well,
that was a thing back in the day. That's
what Paul was right into. That's today's
world that goes on.
Again, we're we're blessed here, but not
not everyone is.
And we can see in Daniel, right, the
example of this deliverance from that
authority, from the governing authority.
Now, sure, there are all kinds of
examples of authorities in our life,
right? Your your boss, the CEO, all
those people have authorities over you.
Um, you know, a police officer has
authority over you if you are pulled
over. um whatever it is that you want to
fill in the blank of authorities, but
really like what he's kind of getting in
here at this story, like if we take it
at its surface level of what the story
is, it's the government authority. The
king made a law. Do this, it is the law,
I am the king. Don't do this, you'll be
thrown into the furnace. It is the law.
I am the king. Right? But whose law is
higher?
the Constitution or the law of God,
right? And that's a hard question. It
shouldn't be, but it is because a lot of
times we kind of want to try to make it
both. But God's law is the ultimate law.
And if we follow God's law, he is able
to deliver us from the authorities.
But he doesn't have to.
Right? There is the situation where uh
but if he doesn't
that doesn't take away the hope though
of why we're doing it. It doesn't take
away the hope of the promises that come
from following God's law, right? It just
means that he didn't promise that
everything's going to be nice and easy.
Let's take a look at uh Matthew.
Matthew chapter 26
and we're going to look at 47-50.
Matthew 26
47
While he was still speaking, behold
Judas, one of the 12 came up accompanied
by a large crowd with swords and clubs,
who came from the chief of priests and
elders of the people. Now he who was
betraying him gave them a sign. Whomever
I kiss, he is the one sees him. And
immediately Jesus went to immediately
Judas went to Jesus and said, "Hail
Rabbi." And kissed him.
Right? And then 51
or 57, excuse me. Uh those who had
seized Jesus led him away to Caiaphas,
the high priest and the where the
scribes and the elders were gathered
together. Right? Jesus was brought
before the authorities. Jesus was
brought before uh the officials whether
that be the Jewish officials and the
high priest Caiaphas and later Herod or
whether it be the Roman officials uh
being Pilate. He was brought before the
authorities and where was the
deliverance,
right? We know how that story ends with
those authorities. Um but in both
examples, right, God is sovereign. He
did not forfeit his sovereignty to man,
but rather he who has authority gave the
authority to those to do what they did.
Point number two,
God can deliver us from accusations,
but if he does not, he is still great.
God can deliver us from accusations
but if he does not he is still great. Um
right the beginning of Daniel chapter 3
or not beginning but chapter or verse 8
we have the Chaldans that come forward.
You have made this decree
verse 12. There are certain Jews who you
have appointed over the administration
of the province of Babylon. Namely,
Shadrach, Meach, and Abednego. These
men, O king, have disregarded you. They
do not serve your gods or the golden
image which you have set up. Right? So,
some of these men brought forth these
accusations against them. And think
about our lives, right? Have you ever
had someone say something that came back
to just hurt you? Um, being accused of
wrongdoing at work, right? Um, being
accused of gossiping about a friend. Oh,
well, so and so said this, you didn't
say it. Uh, being accused of wrongdoing
in a relationship,
being accused of false teaching, right?
Maybe a brother or sister has said
something against you in what you were
talking about,
uh, ever accused of hurting someone,
right? And the list can go on and on.
Think of all the different things that
can can take place there. And we all
know the saying, "Sticks and stones may
break my bones, but words will never
hurt me." Which is the biggest lie,
right? Because words hurt.
I mean, if we're being honest, words
hurt. And sometimes words hurt more than
any physical pain that you could do.
Sometimes I would rather you hit me than
say what you said to me. Um, and I think
that this is a good example of that,
right? Accusations. Um, now with that
being said, somebody is doing something
illegal and it's a true accusation, by
all means, we need to be smart. But a
lot of times these kinds of things come
up to be false accusations. Uh, and of
course we see in the case of Daniel and
his friends that these were true
accusations. Yes, they were not obeying
the law of the king,
but they were obeying the law of the
king. So we know that that through that
accusation,
it was brought forth, it was asked, "Are
you not bowing?" Okay, fine. I will give
you this opportunity. When you hear the
whatever kind of instruments those were
that were mentioned, bow very well.
Right? Gave them the shot. But they did
not. So
there are times in our life, right,
where we will be I I I I put in here
that we may be I mean I feel like this
is more of like a you will be hit with
accusations true or false. Um and it
comes from all people, right?
Co-workers, bosses, strangers, friends,
families, uh church members, you know,
the world to us as a group, whatever it
be. Uh these accusations come from all
over and they can be worldly or they can
be spiritual, right? Could be something
at work, it could be something at
church. Let's look at what uh Jesus is
like in the face of accusations. Matthew
26,
back down to verse 57.
Those who had seized Jesus led him away
to Caiaphas the high priest where the
scribes and the elders were gathered
together. But Peter was following him at
a distance as far as the courtyard of
the high priest and entered in and sat
down to the officers to see the outcome.
Now the chief priests and the whole
council kept trying to obtain false
testimony against Jesus so that they
might put him to death. They did not
find any even though many false
witnesses came forward. But later on two
came forward and said, "This man stated,
I am able to destroy the temple of God
and rebuild it in three days." The high
priest stood up and answered him and
said to him, "Do you not answer? What is
this that these men are testifying
against you?" But Jesus kept silent. And
the high priest said to him, "I adjure
you by the living God that you tell us
whether you are the Christ, the Son of
God." Jesus said to him, "You have said
it yourself. Nevertheless, I tell you
hereafter, you will see the Son of Man
sitting at the right hand of power and
coming on the clouds of heaven. Then the
high priest tore his robes and he said,
"He has blasphemed. What further need we
have of witnesses? Behold, you now have
heard blasphemy." Right?
So they're searching for these false
accusations. They are searching for
these false witnesses. Uh and a couple
came forward, right? And they spoke on
things that they know nothing about,
right? Because I mean,
did Jesus not destroy the temple and
rebuild it in three days? Not in the way
that they know, not in the way that they
think, but did he not do it in himself?
And then to be asked by uh the high
priest, right? All right, just cut it,
right? Are you or are you not the
Christ, the Messiah that we've been
waiting for? I am. You've said it
yourself.
Is he not?
I mean, sure, it's an accusation, but is
is he he is he is the son of God. He is
the Christ. He is the Messiah that
they've been waiting for.
And it goes to show that sometimes,
right, in life, people aren't looking
for the truth.
Sometimes in life, people are looking to
get you,
get me, get us as Christians, get
whoever it may be. Um,
and sometimes God will deliver us,
right? There's accusations against
Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. You are
able to deliver and I will take you out
of this fire. You don't even smell the
smoke on it.
But sometimes,
verse 67, then they spat in his face and
beat him with their fists, and others
slapped him, mocked him, saying,
"Prophesy to us, you Christ, who is the
one who hit you."
Sometimes the deliverance doesn't come
and it might not come right away.
Third point,
God can deliver us from afflictions,
but if he does not, he is still mighty.
God can deliver us from afflictions, but
if he does not, he is still mighty.
Right? So, back to Daniel
chapter 3, 19 and 20.
19 Then Nebuchadnezzar was filled with
wrath, and his facial expression was
altered toward Shadrach, Meshach, and
Abednego. He answered by giving orders
to heat the furnace seven times more
than it was usually heated. He commanded
certain valiant warriors who were in his
army to tie up Shadrach, Meshach, and
Abednego in order to cast them into the
furnace of the blazing fire. Ouch.
Right? Does not sound fun.
Imagine, right? You you are just you're
in captivity. You're just trying to be
good and faithful and obey the law,
right? Obey God. Obey your Lord. And now
this king is telling you that you have
to bow down to this golden image. And
you're like,
right, from what it seems, everybody
else is. They're not the only three
Hebrews that were taken. Everybody else
is probably scared to death and doing
it. And they say, "No,
can't." Right? I can't go against that
conviction. I can't go against what God
says. Now imagine standing before the
king
facing the very real and honest threat
of burning alive in a furnace.
Just the fear,
right? I mean, don't get me wrong,
you're bold. You're standing there. You
have faith in God. You believe in God.
You have hope in the yes. You have hope
in the no. But the fear that you would
feel as that was happening I I mean I I
can't imagine and again right their
conviction their boldness in their faith
overshadows that fear in the story but
you know it was there you know they were
feeling that
so now we know that God delivered them
from the affliction of the furnace but
again let's just read their response
right to see listen to the boldness in
their claims
if it be so our God whom we serve is
able to deliver us from the furnace of
blazing fire and he will deliver us out
of your hand, O king. But even if he
does not, let it be known to you, O
king, that we are not going to serve
your gods or worship the golden image
which you have set up.
Even if he doesn't save us, if he allows
for us to go through this awful and
heinous death, we're still not going to
worship anything other than him. We're
still not going to worship your gods,
right?
I mean, just the the boldness in that
faith.
Flip over to Matthew,
chapter 27.
We're going to start in verse 27.
Matthew chapter 27 starting in verse 27.
Then the soldiers of the governor took
Jesus into the ptorium and gathered the
whole Roman cohort around him. They
stripped him and put a scarlet robe on
him. And after twisting together a corn
a crown of thorns, they put it on his
head and a reed in his right hand. And
they knelt down before him and mocked
him, saying, "Hail, King of the Jews."
They spat on him and they took the reed
and began to beat him on the head. After
they had mocked him, they took off they
took the scarlet robe off and put on his
own garments and led him away to crucify
him. As they were coming out, they found
a man of Sirene named Simon whom they
pressed into service to bear his cross.
And when they came to the place called
Gagatha, which means place of the skull,
they gave him wine to drink mixed with
g. and after tasting it, he was
unwilling to drink. And when they had
crucified him, they divided up his
garments among themselves by casting
lots.
And then just another example, and then
we'll speak about them both. Matthew
4:es
1-2.
Matthew 4 1-2. Then Jesus was led up by
the spirit into the wilderness to be
tempted by the devil. And after he had
fasted 40 days and 40 nights, he then
became hungry. I'll stop there for the
sake of time because I know you know the
rest. Um, affliction can present in many
ways, right? Affliction can be physical,
uh, it can be emotional, it can be
mental, uh, and it can of course be
spiritual affliction. And we see in
Daniel, right, this physical and even
emotional deliverance from the furnace
that Nebuchadnezzar was going to put
them in.
Yet in the case of Christ,
right, he was set to endure the
physical, emotional, mental, and
spiritual affliction that was laid
before him, right? I mean, all wrapped
up into one times a million.
Even in the case of his temptation,
right, as we just read, then Jesus was
led up by the spirit, right? The spirit
led him to the wilderness for the
purpose of the temptation, right? Thus
we pray, lead us not into temptation,
but deliver us from the evil one.
And and I feel like that's one of those
ones that sometimes we kind of it's like
I'm not really quite sure, but don't be
mistaken, right? Our temptations are a
form of affliction, right? They can
cause pain. They can cause hurt. Um
let's just think about uh Jesus, right?
So the waging of the flesh versus uh the
spirit, fleshly lust versus spiritual
conviction. Uh so for what the past I
several months now, we've been doing the
fasting on Tuesday into Wednesday, the
first uh week of the month. If you're
not used to fasting like myself, that
was tough to start off with, right? You
might have had a headache. You might
have had some cramping. You know, you
might have been tired. You know, you
might have felt kind of like a little
bit of brain fog. You know, whatever it
is that you may have felt from 24 hours
of not eating.
It's hard. And you know, you want to so
bad. You walk in, you open up the fridge
to maybe grab a water bottle and you see
last night's dinner sitting there.
You're like, "I am so hungry right now."
Now, 40 days in the desert,
imagine the pain of not eating, right?
Because he still was human,
just how hungry you would be and how
tough it would be to face that
temptation. Come on, just a little
bread, right? You deserve it. You're
hungry. You've been out here worshiping,
praying. You know, you've been doing so
good. And just how easy it would be just
in one simple moment just to resist the
faith, resist obedience to God, right?
Just
easy, just a piece of bread, right? But
Jesus endured.
No, man does not live by bread alone.
The pain.
Then
he was mocked.
He was stripped to nothing. He was hit,
slapped, spat upon,
twisted crown of thorns placed on his
head and then beat in.
who's scourged,
forced to carry a cross,
laid on that rough wood, back just
flayed open, nailed to its beams,
thirsty, tired, emotionally, physically,
whatever else you can fit in there,
drained
death.
But he endured.
There's deliverance later, right?
He's raised from the dead. He's
delivered from the hand of death. We
talked about that last month.
But he was set to endure this suffering
and this pain and the affliction. And we
all face afflictions.
We all struggle.
But let us remember, right? Our
struggles are not a point of pride and
they're not a point of competition. We
see that a lot nowadays. Well, my
struggles are worse than Oh, everybody
struggles. Everybody goes through tough
times.
And while it is true, right, that some
may go through harder struggles or worse
suffering than others, we shouldn't
dismiss
others struggles and what they're going
through.
Work, financial troubles, illness, pain,
heartbreak, grief. It's just a few.
Sure, you can come up with a list of
hundred more. Suffering is a part of
humanity. And God's decision to deliver
us or not doesn't mean he doesn't love
you.
It doesn't mean that you're not a good
Christian.
It doesn't mean that you're unfaithful.
Doesn't mean that he doesn't hear you in
your prayers or that he doesn't see you.
It just means that you don't know the
plans that God has,
right? And a lot of times it's a test.
Put your faith in me.
It's the fishing line that he's sending
out to draw us closer through suffering.
Right? I mean, how backwards does that
seem? But then whenever you're on the
other side of it, how much more clarity
do you have?
Church, suffering is inevitable. You
might even say that to live is to
suffer.
And there's honor in suffering for
Christ. There is. But it doesn't make
that journey any easier. Real quick,
just want to flip over to James 5
7-1. Therefore, be patient, brethren,
until the coming of the Lord. The farmer
waits for this precious produce of the
soil, being patient about it until it
gets early uh gets the early and late
rains. You too be patient. Strengthen
your hearts, for the coming of the Lord
is near. Do not complain, brethren, once
again against one another, so that you
yourselves may not be judged. Behold the
judge is standing right at the door. As
an example, brethren, of suffering and
patience. Take the prophets who spoke in
the name of the Lord. We count those
blessed who endured. You have heard of
the endurance of Job and have seen the
outcome of the Lord's dealings, that the
Lord is full of compassion and is
merciful.
So through this suffering though, right,
that we all go through, through this
suffering, we can hold on to the hope
and the promises of God, including the
time where sufferings shall cease. Let's
look at Romans 8 and verse 18. For I
consider that the sufferings of this
present time are not worthy to be
compared with the glory that is revealed
to us. Amen. For the anxious longing of
the creation waits eagerly for the
revealing of the sons of God. For the
creation was subjected to futility, not
willingly, but because of him who
subjected it in hope. That the creation
itself also will set free from its
slavery to corruption into the freedom
of the glory of the children of God. For
we know that the whole creation groans
and suffers the pain of childbirth
together until now. And not only this,
but we ourselves having the first fruits
of the spirit. Even we ourselves grown
within ourselves, waiting eagerly for
our adoption as sons, the redemption of
our body. For in hope we have been
saved. But hope that is seen is not
hope. For the hope for what he already
for who hopes for what he already sees.
But if we hope for what we do not see
with perseverance we eagerly await it.
Right? We have this hope set before us.
And the suffering that we face now is
not worthy to be compared to the glory
that will be revealed to us. So our God
is able to deliver you from sickness.
But what if he doesn't? Our God is able
to deliver you from poverty or financial
issues, but what if he doesn't? Our God
is able to deliver you from family
problems, but what if he doesn't? Our
God is able to deliver you from pain,
but what if he doesn't? Our God is able
to deliver you from heartache, but what
if he doesn't? And our God is able to
deliver you from authorities,
accusations, and afflictions,
but what if he doesn't?
Whatever the issue is, one thing
remains. Our hope in Jesus Christ.
That is it.
There's a Passover song uh that the Jews
would sing. It's called the the Denu,
which means it is enough. Uh it's a a
newer thing. Well, newer. It's still
really old, but it's not necessarily
like BC. Um and the exact origins and
the reason for being written or argued,
um it's believed around the 9th century
that this was written. And and this is
how it goes.
If he had brought us out from Egypt and
had not carried out judgments against
them, it would have been enough. If he
had carried out judgments against them
and not against their idols, it would
have been enough. If he had destroyed
their idols and had not spitten their
firstborn, it would have been enough. If
he had smitten their firstborn and had
not given us their wealth, it would have
been enough. If he had given us their
wealth and had not split the sea for us,
it would have been enough. If he had
split the sea for us and had not taken
us through on dry land, it would have
been enough. If he had taken us through
on the sea, through the sea on dry land
and had not drowned our oppressors in
it, it would have been enough. If he had
drowned our oppressors in it and had not
supplied the needs of the desert for 40
years, it would have been enough. If he
had supplied our needs in the desert for
40 years and had not fed us mana, it
would have been enough. If he had fed us
the mana and had not given us Shabbat,
it would have been enough. If he had
given us Shabbat and had not brought us
before Mount Si, it would have been
enough. If he had brought us before
Mount Si and had not given us the Torah,
it would have been enough. If he had
given us the Torah and had not brought
us into the land of Israel, it would
have been enough. If he had brought us
into the land of Israel and not built
for us the holy temple, it would have
been enough. So church, what is your
Diana?
What is your it would have been enough?
Through all of our suffering, through
all of the struggles and issues that we
face, God still blesses. He is still
sovereign. He is still great. And he is
still mighty.
If he had done nothing but gave Jesus,
it is enough.
That's it. Life is hard. Sometimes
appears hopeless.
But our God is faithful and we hold hope
in his promises.
Jesus endured, right? We just read about
Jesus not no deliverance. Jesus endured
so that we might be delivered.
Deliverance from the bondage to sin,
delivered from the evil one, delivered
from death. John 3:16, right? God so
loved the world, he gave his only
begotten son. Whoever believes in him
should not perish but have eternal life.
So if you're here this morning and you
feel hopeless, like God doesn't hear
your cries or offer you deliverance from
your suffering, hold your hope in the
promises of his son, Jesus Christ. If
you would like to be baptized into his
possession, we can do that for you. If
you need anything for us to pray, please
come now as we stand and as we sing.
