I know that it's not a funny joke, but
Hosea said, "You know, our our neighbor
always kisses her husband when he leaves
for work. Why don't you do that?" And
Goomemer said, "Okay, sure. I'll kiss
him if you want me to."
That's the problem with this story.
That's a real truth in this story. Hosea
ministered in the northern kingdom. If
you want to get a little information
here, ministered in the northern kingdom
somewhere in the neighborhood of 753 to
7:22.
That's Ephraim and Samaria. It was the
8th century.
And uh he prophesied until the time we
believe of the Assyrians.
Political turmoil is definitely what he
was dealing with. There's the calm
before the storm. how Hosea began his
ministry during the prosperity time of
King Jeroboam II. And then there was
this time of instability and things
going bad. There's several
assassinations and attempts of
assassinations and finally the Assyrian
threat. It was not just a threat. It led
to the destruction in 7:22 BC. Syria
destroyed the northern kingdom and took
it off in three carings away. And pretty
much it was never the same.
Looking to the religious and social
crisis around idolatry and spiritual
adultery was the message of the day.
Basically, they were having serious
problems in the northern kingdom with
idolatry with particularly Baal,
Canaanite fertility god. I'll come back
to that in a moment.
The social decay was rampant.
The ruling priestly class had
re-engineered society to match with the
Assyrian society, which was basically
exploitation of the poor to get richer.
moral failure was everywhere. He
condemned this moral fa failure and the
violence that went along with it, the
deception that went along with that and
the total lack of justice and
faithfulness to people's word.
And we get into an interesting place
here in Liil. I don't know how much
y'all have ever studied the names of the
gods way back, but the summer lord and
lil is the lord of the wind or the air.
Uh his opponent was in.
These may be the origins of some of the
words that we use even in our bible.
Believe it or not, um over a millennial,
the name of Enlil changed from
Mesopotamia
to um well, it's Enlil, that's the
Acadian and Babylonian name for the
deity that we would not refer to as a
deity, but rather as a a devil.
His name changed to Nunam um Nunam near
uh which was another Samrian name for
him. That's the Samrians. I don't know
if you've studied. That's like the
earliest thing we've got. If you've ever
seen clay tablets that it's just little
triangular shapes on it. Uh that's the
summer's
uh Asher. Uh and there's a huge library
of the summer material that's been
uncovered because it was on clay
tablets. It endured the flood. Asher u
so it's around even afterwards. Asher,
the supreme uh national god of Assyria
is the same one as Enlil and N means God
or Lord of and liil means the air or the
wind. You've probably heard that term
before in Ephesians. So Ephesians 2:2,
he also went by another name Beaal or
Bell or uh Beaalib.
Now the name that the people used was
Bea Bea Bull, but the Jews renamed him
to Beaub.
Bezi Bull meant lord of the air or lord
of the wind and Bezi bub meant lord of
the flies. And that was the Philistine
god as well.
Now what's interesting here is the
worship of Baal centered on agricultural
and human fertility rituals and uh it's
pretty bad. I'm hesitant to even read
some of this but I will magic uh
witchcraft rituals animal sacrifices
and then it's temple prostitution
ecstatic rights of wild frenzied
behavior. You see that a little bit on
um the mountain when u the prophets on
the mountain and there they have that
back and forth
and um then there's the static rights
and then there's self- cutting and you
see that as well
and then uh bowing to calf idols
perverted sexual activity and
beastiality and the sacrifice of the
firstborn was common. So all that was a
part of the worship of what was once
called Enlil, later called uh Asher and
then Baal. So that's the devil.
That's what it is. Uh these terrible
sins and perversions are the reason that
the Canaanites were destroyed.
These were the things that were in the
country before Israel took over.
So it's the reason. So if you think that
because you're born of Abraham, you got
a free ticket, you got another thing
coming. Because if you do the same thing
that everybody else does in wickedness,
it's going to come home to you. So
without going through these passages,
I'd encourage you to read uh Leviticus
18:24
through I don't know if I've got that
up. Yeah, I do. Here we go. Leviticus
18:24-28,
Deuteronomy 9 4-5, Deuteronomy 20:16-18.
The Canaanites were perverse. Now,
northern Israel was perverse. There is
no other way of saying it. They had slid
off the table.
So, this is the world that Hosea comes
into.
Would God have any mercy upon such
people at all? Yeah, he would find a
way. So, here we go. Here's the first
lesson that we need to get. That's
Hosea's prophetic marriage. So, he was
told to do something rather strange. It
goes against the grain of just about
everything that you read in the Old
Testament about marrying a faithful
person, about being with a faithful
person. Especially if you were a
prophet, you want to marry someone that
you could trust and that would trust
you. But it was a message.
His life, we're going to come back to
this at the end. Hosea's life became the
message of God.
You don't want that.
But it happens.
His life became the message of God. the
from the marriage, God marrying Israel,
to the adultery, which is what they're
going through at this moment, to the
abandonment, and then to the
restoration. That's what happened in in
chapters 1, 2, and three, with his wife,
this woman of harlotry.
First they were married, had children,
then there was adultery,
finally she abandons the home, runs off
with someone else, and then later is
bought back and restored.
So it's the same thing with Israel. It
was a covenant
followed by idolatry
followed by what we call exile, carings
away, and then restoration.
So, ha, Hosea is commanded to marry
Goomemer, a woman of harlotry. And
that's where that leads to. His life is
the message with her.
And the fact that he brought her home
and then she was faithful to him from
then on. That's the message of the book,
that restoration is possible.
grace can happen. No matter what you've
done, it can be restored.
The second truth is Hosea's prophetic
message. So, the book doesn't just end
there. He then prophesies for the next
10 chapters. And in that prophecy, he
 lays out several things.
I've got the list up here. You can look
at it. He says there was no true
knowledge of God in the land.
That sounds about right from what we're
looking at.
uh he preached about the hypocrisy of
Israel's worship. So they pretended to
worship the Lord God or as we know him
and so basically they pretended that but
at the same time they was worshiping
Baal.
He says that they were trusting
political alliances with heathen
nations. And they were they were
aligning themselves with anybody that
would because they were seeking
political power. They were no longer a
religious group of people fundamentally.
They were a political group of people. I
think that's something you might need to
pay attention to if we talk about Israel
today.
Okay? Israel is a political in entity.
It isn't really a religious entity.
I think that's important for you to
recognize and not to get all caught up
in the idea that they descend from
Abraham because a lot of them don't uh
that live in Israel. But uh in atheism
in Israel is is so common place. It's
one of the highest uh group of people in
the world with atheism. The only thing
comes closer probably Holland
that Israel was like God's prodigal son
that God seeks to restore as a part of
his message in in these chapters. He
summarizes Israel's history and he makes
it like Jacob lying uh and his treachery
uh the rebellion in the wilderness. He
uses that uses the choice of King Saul
as a bad choice and the hope of healing
and restoration still being there and
the in gathering. All of that was there.
All of that's covered in chapters 4-14.
Goomemer's infidelity represented
Israel's unfaithfulness to God is the
message of 4 through4 and he discovers
it in various ways. The most interesting
thing though is not just his marriage
and his message. It's this recurring
theme that goes throughout this book in
many ways. That's Hosea's prophetic
mercy. The message of mercy is so strong
in this book and so shocking and how far
the mercy's willing to be extended that
it should not be missed when you're
reading this book. In chapter 1:es 6 and
7, it says, "And she conceived again and
bore a daughter. Then God said to him,
call her name Lo Rouhamama, for I will
no longer have mercy on the house of
Israel, but I will utterly take them
away," which is what happened. Uh they
went into captivity, Assyrian captivity,
yet I will have mercy on the house of
Judah. So even though Judah was already
leaning this way as well, that wasn't
who he was really primarily preaching
at, although he was preaching at Judah
as well. And said, "Yet I will have
mercy on the house of Judah and will
save them by the Lord their God, and
will not save them by bow, nor by sword
or battle, by horses or horsemen." So
God's going to do this. God's going to
save Israel, but he's not going to save
it by political or military power. not
going to happen. That wasn't somebody
wasn't going to come riding in over the
hill and rescue them. No. In fact, bad
things were going to happen. Hosea 2:23
says, "Then I will sew her for sew her
for myself in the earth, and I will have
mercy on her who had not obtained
mercy." Then I will say to those who
were not my people, "You are my people."
And they will say, "You are my God."
You know, there's a message in that for
us who are Gentiles, right? We were not
the people of God
and now look at you people of God. So
God can have mercy on people that uh at
one time were not his people. Here he's
really talking about how that uh they
had wandered away and they would come
back and that's the message that Judah
would particularly but northern Israel
was in trouble. Hosea 66 for I desire
mercy and not sacrifice and the
knowledge of God more than burnt
offerings. That's quoted in the New
Testament particularly Matthew 12:7
where Jesus uses it. And the point is is
that you need to understand that we're
not saved because we're good.
We're not saved because we get it all
right.
God doesn't pick us out because we were
so wonderful. Israel was not saved
originally from Egyptian captivity
because they were so holy. It just
didn't happen. It never was like that.
And if you think you're saved tonight
because you've been so good, you're
mistaken.
We're all sinners and he desires mercy
and not sacrifice. So he'd rather us to
receive his mercy than to think somehow
through offering sacrifices and doing
some kind of act of loyalty that somehow
we would therefore be absolutely right
with God because of our action. Rather,
he wants us to understand that he's
saving us and we need to know what God's
really like more than all of burnt
offerings. And then Hosea 14:3, Assyria
shall not save us. We will not ride on
horses, nor will we say anymore to the
work of our hands, you are our gods. For
in you, the fatherless find mercy. One
day, they were going to never go back to
idolatry. That was the day coming.
That's true. Now, that did happen. They
finally abandoned that, but it was
mainly the household of Judah that did
that. Hosea's merciful love and
unbreakable forgiveness depicts God's
mercy. What a great story this is in so
many ways.
So Hosea, this is the message, the
simplistic way of looking at it. Hosea's
prophetic marriage is a message about
God's mercy toward people that don't
deserve it. And then Hosea's prophetic
message defines how bad things were were
and how bad they had become. And then of
course his mercy is all through the book
trying to help you to understand that
the very fact that he's preaching is an
act of mercy. The very fact that you're
hearing the word of God tonight is an
act of God's mercy. We forget that. We
forget that the very fact that we are
able to be here and receive messages
from the Lord, that's an act of God's
mercy. Idolatry is a central failure
that Hosea is focusing on and it was a
great tragedy to Israel.
Nathan uh Castens
tells in a book called The Wounded
Healer about Henry Novuen.
uh retells a a tale from ancient India
about four royals
who had gone out and had learned deep
things and now they had come back in
having learned these great things. And
so they thought that they were now
masters of their own fate and as time
went by they revealed what they had
learned. So the first one said, "Well, I
went out and I've mastered a science of
which I can take nothing but a bone and
from a bone, any bone I can of any
creature, I can create flesh that goes
on it." Well, everybody, wow. The second
guy said, "Well, I can do something. I
know now after having really mastered
things, I know how to grow that
creature's skin and hair if there is
flesh on the bone. So, I can add to what
you've done. The third guy says, "Well,
I'm able to create its the limbs. If you
can do all that, I can create the limbs
if I have the flesh and the skin and the
hair and I can give a a body to it. So,
I can make it complete." And the fourth
guy said, 'Well, if y'all can do all of
that,
I know how to give life to that
creature. I have studied and now I know
how to give life to a creature like that
whose form is complete.
Everybody was in awe. Can that really be
done? Yes. Well, let's prove it. So,
they went out into the jungle and they
found a bone and they said, "Here we
are. We can start with this bone."
just so happened that they were going to
do this and demonstrate their special
skills. They didn't realize they had
picked up a lion's bone.
So, the first guy, he adds flesh to the
bone. The second guy grows hair and hide
and more flesh to the bone. The third
guy completes it with matching limbs, a
head, and and everything. So, it's it's
a full lion laying on the ground. The
fourth guy literally gives it life.
Suddenly the lion comes to life, stands
up, shakes itself,
and then rose and eats all four men.
The point of the story is, y'all look at
me like you don't believe this is a true
story. The point of the story is is that
you can work and be a master and think
that you're a master of your fate and
learn all these things and invest your
life into something that will instead of
being
the wonderful thing you've done. It can
eat you. It can eat you alive. Our
ambitions, our creations become our
gods.
What Why did Israel go the way they
went?
They wanted prosperity.
They had goals just like you and me. And
the things that they wanted, they were
willing to do whatever it took to get
there, including messing with some kind
of a false god to potentially have
prosperity and crops and and rain. And
that was the idea behind it all to have
whatever they wanted.
The stuff they wanted had become their
god. Oh, they bowed to Baal or whatever
you want to call him. But ultimately
what they were really after was all the
stuff they just wanted. You know that,
right? That's the only reason anybody
bows to an idol. So you say, "Well, we
don't have idols." No, we just bow to
the stuff we want.
In 1558, John Calvin in Institutes of
the Christian Religion described the
human heart as
a perpetual
idol factory.
A perpetual idol factory. He argued that
the human mind is full of presumptuous
rashness and continually creating mold
molded idols. and gods and replacing all
the time. If this one doesn't work, we
go after that one. Calvin especially
addressed the ancient ones that people
still believed in to some degree even in
his lifetime. But the concept is so
deep. Let me give you how deep it is.
Ezekiel 14:3 says this, "These men have
set up their idols in their hearts and
put before them that which causes them
to stumble." You see, it doesn't
actually have to be in front of you, an
idol that you bow down to. It doesn't
have to be a a statue. If it's something
that you give your life to above the
Lord, that is what idolatry is. You
don't have to have the other. So, good
things can be turned into evil things.
You can take a good thing, your career,
your wealth, your family, your
reputation. It can become your idol and
you can have that and be the most
important thing and abandon God. They
were abandoning God. Oh, and look where
it took them, but they probably thought
they weren't doing that bad of a thing.
Distractions can become your idols.
Idols provide a counterfeit sense of
control. That's the whole idea. things
we can see and manipulate rather than
surrendering to a god that I cannot see.
Now back I told you we'd come to this
point.
You see the story is about a man
ultimately
that had to become the message. Ministry
is tough
if you recognize
you are the message.
Have you seen it?
Yeah,
you do realize that, right?
You're the message.
It's tough when you're the message. Look
at Job.
He became the message.
And mercy will cause one to pray for one
who misjudges you for your suffering.
That was tough. But that was the message
at the end.
Jonah,
mercy will cause one to see his own
desperate need for mercy rather than
seeing everybody else who needs to be
destroyed.
He became the message.
Hosea became the message of mercy.
Mercy will cause one to show love to one
who even breaks your heart.
Jesus is the message.
Mercy will cause one to suffer to save
the rest of us.
Now whether you realize it or not,
you are the message.
When you think that you've got to say
something, no, no, no, no. That's not
what you got to do. You got to live
something.
And you got to live that in front of
others. I'm going tell you something.
This is hard.
This is hard
cuz you got faults that people will mock
and you deserve it.
Did you just hear me? You have faults
that others will mock and it's not
wrong. You deserve it,
but you've got good.
And if you use it right, you become the
message of mercy to the people around
you. This is hard, but that's the
message. If you see it, each person has
the opportunity of being the message of
mercy
to the rest of the people around them.
Because here's the truth. You're the
message because you need mercy.
I need mercy.
And therefore, we can become a message
of mercy to the world around us. We need
to flee our idols and follow the Lord
because ultimately, you know, we all
have idols. Uh-oh. Did I say that out
loud? We all have idols. We all have
things. If we didn't, we wouldn't sin.
We all have things we want to do. We all
have things we want to say. We all have
things we want to get done for me. Take
care of me. We all have it. We all
struggle with our idols. But if we can
see that if we will live a mercy given
life,
we'll be the message to the people
around us. And just the way you live
without saying a word, you can win some
people.
Just being kind. Sometimes people don't
even realize how important this is. Just
be nice. Amen.  Just be nice.
It's not that hard. Be nice. You'll be
amazed if you're here tonight and you've
not been nice. You hearing me? Talking
to you.
Every one of you been nasty.
I'm not talking to other people. I'm
talking to me and you. We're the real
people here. Every one of us have been
ugly. Everybody's been ugly. Everybody's
been nasty to somebody. So if just we
need to understand we need mercy. Every
one of us has done wrong. We need mercy.
Everybody's done bad. We need mercy. But
the fact that we know we need mercy
becomes a message to everybody else
because the who the people that you're
going to reach are people who are not
even living as good as you are. And
they'll recognize if they find out you
need mercy. Guess how they'll
understand. Well, maybe they can be
received. If you're here tonight, you've
not given your life to the Lord. I want
to give you that opportunity. Repent of
your sins. Confess the name of Christ.
Be baptized. Mercy is yours.
