I think uh one of the things I've been
thinking a lot about lately is how to
deal with new members and that's kind of
provoked what I want to talk to you
about just for a moment here and that is
uh I think it needs to kind of may maybe
be on your mind as well and um how we
deal with uh new disciples who are
coming to us and one of the things it
began to hit me is we may be asking the
wrong questions of anybody who's a new
disciple coming to this church. And I'd
never considered it. I'd never thought
that maybe I mean we seem to and I began
to realize that we may be asking
questions when someone's new comes to us
that is in our benefit but not not in
their benefit. So some banging that
around. I'd like you to be thinking
about that. Maybe you could help us do a
better job if you think about it. Here's
some questions that occurred to me that
might be asked with someone who's coming
that's new. Okay, think through this
with me. How did you become a Christian?
I think probably we ask a question like
that. And what ministry of the church
might you be interested in serving? We
probably ask questions like that. Here's
one. Are are there areas of disciplehip,
teaching, ministry, training, or special
tr topics you think you may need at this
time? I don't know if we asked that.
uh what are you looking for in a church?
You say, "Well, it doesn't matter what
they're looking for. We are what we
are." But they may have a special need.
Uh what do you want or need most from
this church? What is it that have we
ever asked that question? I'm going to
get more detailed here in a minute. So,
in what ways might we serve you best?
See, I think maybe we tend to ask
questions in line of what they can do
for us instead of what we can do for
them. And maybe we need to change the
way we think there. In what ways would
you prefer to be contacted by the
church? There's a question. Would you
prefer to be contacted by phone calls or
emails or text messages or visits or by
mail? Snail mail.
In what ways might this church serve you
best when you andor family are sick?
What do you want from us? Do you want
phone calls? Do you want emails? Do you
want text messages? Do you want a visit
when you're sick? Do you want to receive
something in the mail? Maybe a card.
That may sound strange to you. If you're
if you've been a member a long time, you
may be thinking, "Well, what in the
world is that about?" Well, all of us
old guys think one way and the new
people are thinking differently than
what we thought.
And what ways might uh this church serve
you best when you andor a family member
hospitalized? Do you want phone calls?
Do you want emails? Do you want text
messages? Do you want a visit? Do you
want something in the mail? This is to
ask a new person because everybody
doesn't want what we want. The old
oldies like me, we had a set way that
people did church. We're now finding out
people don't always want us to come.
We've been finding out that for a few
years and uh maybe we need to listen. In
what ways might this church serve you
best when you and or a family are facing
surgery? What do you want from us? Do
you want phone calls? Do you want
emails? You want text messages? Do you
want somebody to visit? You want
somebody to be there? Do you want
something in the mail? In what ways
might we serve you best when you and or
a family are facing severe or terminal
illness? What is it that you want from
us in those situations? Have you thought
about it? Do you want a phone call
regularly? Do you want emails on some
kind of regular? Do you want text
messages? Do you want visits on a
regular basis? What would you like?
Think about it. Do you need things in
the mail? Here's another one. In what
ways might this church serve you best
when you and or a family member are
having a baby? What do they want? Phone
calls, emails, text message. You get the
rhythm of it. And what ways might this
church serve you best when you are a
family member having a wedding? So,
those are the kind of questions. That's
not the list of the questions that I
drew up. I was just trying to provoke
your thinking because I'm starting to
think maybe we're asking the wrong
questions and that we're asking
questions of new people that serve us
and we need to send the message we need
to serve them.
That that's who we are. Give that some
thought if you would get back to me if
you have that. Give that some thought
and come back to me on that. Okay. Here
are questions tonight. Roles of angels
in heaven and on earth. free will versus
predestination and does God punish
versus Satan's influence in our lives
regarding turmoil. So, let's see if we
can walk through these. And you'll
notice that I'm not going to give a lot
of detail on this. I'll talk a little
more, but I wanted you to have the
scriptures you want. You want to take
these down, have at it, take a picture
of it. This isn't everything. There's
some that back in the day we there used
to be a little bitty book by a brother
Blazer years ago that was really a good
little study book on angels angels
angels I think that's not the exact name
of it something like that it's been re
that's a Billy Graham book I just quoted
angels angels it's it's a different
title but it's similar to that and um he
all it was was questions and fill in the
blank answers so it's a real basic study
these verses and I've taught that book
probably three three or four times. I
don't think I've ever taught it here. Uh
but the number one role of angels in
heaven, basically put it as simply as I
can, is to serve God. And the number one
role of angels on earth other than to
serve God is to serve us, the disciples
of the Lord. Okay? But I want to take
you a couple of places maybe you haven't
thought. I want I'm not going to get too
deep here. I'm going to take you to a
passage in a minute. We'll read this
passage together cuz it's one of the
most interesting passages to me on the
subject of angels in the Bible. Okay?
It's just one little really interesting
one. Maybe you've missed. I'd missed it.
Kind of read it, didn't pay attention to
it. So, we'll take a look at that. Uh,
but I want to point out a few things
about angels. Maybe you know, maybe you
don't know. First of all, there are
armies. Angels are
uh as an army. The Bible talks about the
Lord of hosts, Lord of Angels, but it's
the Lord of Hosts are the angels. And
they are an army. And it's not a little
army. It's it's an army. And it's a big
one. Now, which brings up the next
question. Why in the world do you need
armies? I don't know. Okay. So then,
yeah, I don't know how to answer that
question cuz I don't know. Why do you
need armies in heaven? Got nothing. I
got nothing. There appear to be between
eight and nine levels of angels by most
studies. Uh you've heard of a couple,
you know, archangels, there's serapam,
that's a different type of angel,
there's cherubam, you know, those those
are but if you do a real in-depth study,
you'll find that there looks like
there's about nine levels of angels. Um
they kill people.
Angels have killed people. That's not
talked about very often, is it? Yeah.
Angels have killed a lot of people. Uh
they send messages, bring messages,
right, to the people of God. They take
care of people. They actually do things
that care for you. You may not be aware
of it, but they will take care of you.
They protect. And they've been known to
protect. They've actually got into
battles to protect people. We know that
from the book of Daniel. We know that
they can fly, but not necessarily all of
them can fly. I don't know. Everybody,
all the angels aren't portrayed as being
able to fly. And the uh they're almost
always pro projected as a male figure.
Uh I don't know that they are male, but
they're projected as a male figure. Uh
they don't marry, which is into that
same kind of thinking. Uh they're
powerful. We don't know how powerful
they are, but one angel killed several
almost 200,000 men one night. So pretty
powerful.
uh they have sinned. Uh we don't know
all the ways in which that is talking
about that they've sinned and fallen. Uh
it appears that one of the ways that
they sinned and fell was that some at
least left their first estate their
their assignment and uh they may have
come down to earth and had relationships
with women. If that's the case,
apparently women it was your hair that
got their attention. That didn't make
any sense to me, but okay. They are uh
they're involved in the revelation.
You've read the book of revelation.
Angels are mentioned all over the place
in the book of revelation and we know
that they are below Jesus now and he's
above them as you well know. Hebrews
chapter 1, chapter 2. And because Jesus
is way above the angels, and though man
was made a little lower than the angels,
and Jesus particularly for the suffering
of death, we're made lower than the
angels, but we shall be over the angels
and we shall judge angels. That probably
doesn't mean that we will judge them in
the judgment day. It probably means
judge in the sense of the judges the Old
Testament. Any rate, that's about all
I've got, but I'd like to take you to a
passage now. Okay, go with me. I I
encourage you. This is interesting. Go
to Exodus chapter 23. Exodus chapter 23.
I was reading this the other day and I
said, you know, that's just that's
mindboggling to me. All right. Exodus 23
about angels.
Exodus 23. Come on, you can do it.
It's lovely to hear pages, right? Verse
20, beginning. Exodus 23. Beginning in
verse 20. I'm just going to read about
three verses here.
Beginning verse 20. Behold, now this is
God talking, right? This is the Lord God
speaking. Here's what he says. Behold, I
send an angel before you to keep you in
the way and to bring you into the place
which I have prepared. So, God has
prepared a place. He's talking about
Canaan land, right? I'm sending an angel
before you. He will go before you,
right?
Listen to the next statement. Verse 21.
Beware of him. You
ever heard that said?
Beware of him and obey his voice.
Wow. That's a threat, isn't it? Beware
of him and obey his voice. Do not
provoke him.
What?
For he will not pardon your
transgressions.
Wow.
For my name is in him.
That's a statement.
But if you indeed obey his voice and do
all that I speak. Now that's interesting
way of saying that. Obey his voice and
do all that I speak. Then I will be an
enemy to your enemies and an adversary
to your adversaries. For my angel will
go before you and bring you into the
Amorites and the Hittites and Perizzites
and Canaanites and all the other ites
and cut them off and you shall not bound
to their gods. There's a little more on
that but I'm not going to get into that
but I find that one of the more
interesting passages. Now most of most
of those are called theopo the
theophanes uh because uh nobody has
nobody knows what that means and so they
use a fancy word to just say
manifestation of god and so the burning
bush is a manifestation of god angel the
burning bush okay that's about it a
bunch of scriptures you can read up on
it study them mostly I will tell you a
few things that maybe I should touch a
couple of things one is hebs 1:14
basically says that they are sent forth
to minister to us. Matthew 4:11, they
came and they ministered to Jesus.
Hebrews chapter 2 verse 2 and then verse
5. In the Old Testament, they were the
primary conduit of the messages of God
to his people. So that's pretty much
summarizes as simple as I can without
getting into too deep water on that. But
it's an interesting study, but I don't
think it's something that you should
worry about too much. Number next, free
will versus predestination.
Free will versus predestination. All
right. A paradox. Let's talk about what
a paradox is. Paradox is a statement or
situation or an idea that seems
contradictory or absurd, but up under
closer examination reveals a deeper
truth or a more complex reality
challenging logic and common sense.
Here's the truth. As I understand it,
every major doctrine we believe has a
built-in paradox. That's not a
contradiction, but it has paradox, an
apparent contradiction
in every every, not some,
you cannot mention a major doctrine
that there is not a paradox built into
it. Let me give you a couple. Creation,
it's a creation paradox. Genesis 1:1
says, "In the beginning, God."
However, Psalm 41, Psalm 106, "From
everlasting to everlasting, your God."
You can't have a forever before you have
an event.
There's no such thing.
So, if you have a beginning, there can't
be an eternal. I'm just telling you
that's an apparent paradox. It obviously
is true, but it's paradoxical sounding.
Okay, sounds wrong. Still true. It's
like the trinity. Sounds wrong, but it
is the truth. You can't have three
persons and be one. 1 plus 1 plus one.
Of course, if you multiply 1* 1* 1, you
can do it. But if you if you do it this
way, you said, well, you can't have a
triangle that equals a circle. Of
course, if you make the triangle
threedimensional and spin it, then you
have actually a cone. And a cone is both
a circle and a triangle. So, a thing
that sounds like it can't be can
sometimes be.
Okay? Thing that sounds like it couldn't
be true can be true. In there's an
inspirational paradox.
Who wrote the book of Romans?
Well, you say Paul did. Okay. So, God
didn't write the book of Romans. Why are
we listening to it? Well, God wrote the
book of Romans. Well, if God wrote the
book of Romans, who are we talking about
of Paul then? Well, Paul wrote it. I
thought it was inspired and inherent. It
is. How can Paul write it? And let's
pick up his personality and his personal
ways of writing things and yet it be of
God at the same time. I have no idea.
I'm telling you, it happened. I know
it's true, but it's paradoxical in me
trying to explain it. I don't know how
to explain it. I don't know how to tell
you in a way that make you understand it
where I would feel good about the way I
just explained it. I believe it
completely. You do too. But I to explain
that in verbs that makes sense to me and
you. That's easy to explain. I don't
know. Let's talk about the incarnation
of of Christ. So incarnation Christ,
he's God, right? He's the word of God.
Word of God became flesh and became man,
right?
How does how does God become man? How
can God be man? I believe it. He was the
God man. I believe it. But if you're
God, you're God. If you're man, you're
man. How can you be God and man? That's
one of the reasons some people struggle
with this. It is a difficult thing to
explain. We we all believe it. I'm
sitting here. I don't want to get into
that too deep. But in the beginning was
the word and the word was with God and
the word was God. Right? All things were
made by him. Without him was not
anything made that made that was made.
And then it says verse 14, the word
became flesh and dwelt among us. It's
true. Explaining it. I don't know how to
say that. I I don't know words.
I can only quote what it says, right? I
believe exactly what it says and you do
too. Same thing about salvation.
Salvation is a bit of a paradox because
in the salvation, of course, man's sin,
Genesis 3:15 predicts it's going to be
uh the you'll bruise his heel and he'll
bruise your head. It's it's going to be
taken care of. How does he take care of
it? It's not apparent initially, but
what he really does is he ends up
putting himself in a position where he
is declared to be sin.
And he did that through a passage in
Deuteronomy 21:22.
We're told about that in Galatians 3:13.
In 2 Corinthians 5:21, he says, "He was
made sin for us, right? That we might
become the righteousness of God." So the
just
became unjust that the unjust might be
made just. That's the truth here. I know
it's true, but it seems paradoxical that
the just could ever be made unjust. How
does that? And that if you could just
forgive a thing, just go ahead and
forgive the thing,
right? But it's still true. And so we
come to the subject of predestination.
Listen to me. I want to just a couple of
things. And some of you going to get
upset with me. Please don't. I believe
in free will. I believe in God's will. I
believe God gets to do whatever he wants
to do. I believe we get to do whatever
we want to do. I don't believe either
one of I don't. It looks like they
contradict. I don't believe they do, but
it sure looks that way from perspective.
Now, can I explain how they don't? Not
really. And I'll talk about that in just
a second. So Psalm 139:16,
the days before I was fashioned, yet
before I was even in the womb, all my
days were written.
All the days of my life were written out
before I was born in God's book. How
could that be? In Jeremiah 1 and verse
5, before I formed you in the womb, I
adorned you. Adorned you. I ordained you
a prophet. How can you ordain him a
prophet before he's even finished being
formed before he's had a chance to
choose whether to be a prophet or not?
Romans chapter 8 28-30. Not just all
things work together for good and how
God can pull that one off without
violating free will, but he does. And
then it says, "And you were
predestined." Those of us who were
called were predestined.
You say, "Well, you know, you're you're
taking that too far." Ephesians 15 11
both say that we're predestined. So I
believe it just like it says it and for
in John 15 16 and 19 say that uh you
didn't choose me but I chose you
believe all that John MacArthur I think
gives the best answer to this and I'm
not a big fan of John MacArthur and I'm
not I don't want to talk bad about him
though because he's dead now he just
died recently but uh he taught this in
an interesting way and I want to read a
quote that came out he he made this
quote back in 2018 and I knew years ago
back when I used to uh back when I was
young. Uh I was young once and I was
reading his books back when I was in my
20s and I knew he believed this back
then. Uh and I heard him say something
like this, but this was said in 2018. I
heard him say something like this back
when I'm like I don't know 25 26 years
old and I couldn't argue with it.
Listen, well, you might be able to argue
with it, but listen to what he said. Do
you believe that God is sovereign? In
other words, somebody had asked the
question. and he's in front of the
audience and he's answering a question.
Uh, and he's asking a question. He was
asked a question about predestination
versus free will. Here's what he says.
Do you believe that God is sovereign in
salvation? Of course. Do you believe God
chooses who would be saved? Of course.
Do you believe the Father draws? Yes. Do
you believe the Son keeps? Yes. It's all
sovereign. It's all predestined. It's
all established. Absolutely right. It's
what the Bible says. Do you believe that
whosoever will may come? Yes. Do you
believe God finds no pleasure in the
death and judgment of the wicked? Yes.
Do you believe that Jesus wept because
sinners should not repent? Of course.
Are you willing to call all sinners to
repent and to do uh to and do you
believe they are responsible if they do
not come? Yes. How do you harmonize
that? I don't know.
I don't know how to harmonize that.
You're asking too much of me. I'm not
God. You want my little peanut uh brain
to grasp that? Give me a break. It's not
my problem. But the one thing I cannot
do is deny what scripture says. Now, I
know somebody could stand up here and
they could probably in their mind
explain all of this to you. I cannot.
I'm grateful for those who believe they
can. And if you think you can, you
answer the question next time. I don't
know how to explain this. I don't. I
believe in paradoxes. I don't be believe
in contradictions. I believe in
paradoxes. I don't know how to explain
every paradox. And there is a paradox in
everything we believe. If you don't
believe that, let's just go down the
line. You just talk talk deeper. Every
single major doctrine we believe has a
built-in paradox. It almost sounds like
a contradiction, but it is not. But I
don't know how to explain every one of
them. Can I explain any of them?
Let me move on to the next question.
I don't know that I can for sure and
make you happy. There's the thing. And I
think backing up just a minute. I think
thinking you could explain it and
getting mad at anybody who doesn't agree
with the way you explain it is part of
the reason we have so many
denominations.
We couldn't tolerate we couldn't
tolerate the disagreement
because we thought to tolerate the
disagreement about something that we
thought we could explain meant that
you're going to hell because you don't
agree with me. I think that's a
dangerous path. Some of you will think
my position is a dangerous path and will
think I'm not going to heaven
potentially because of that position.
You don't get to choose.
I do believe that part and neither do I.
Number next, does God punish? This is
kind of rough question. Does God punish?
This is I didn't change any of these.
Did God punish? Does God punish versus
Satan's influence in life's turmoil? As
I understand the question, question is
asking uh the trouble that we have in
our life. Is it as a result of God
punishing us or as a result of us being
influenced by Satan and therefore we
have trouble in life? And uh let me see
if I can walk down that in a way that
makes a little sense and I'm almost done
anyway. So does God punish? The answer
is yes.
No,
that is the answer.
Not for the believers. He doesn't punish
the believers, but he does discipline.
He does chasen the believers. Well,
isn't it the same thing? Well, from the
perspective of the person receiving it,
it's the same thing. I've noticed when
I'm getting a spanking from my mom or my
dad, it felt like I was being punished,
not chasened, if you know what I mean.
Uh, so from your perspective, it sure
feels that way. But there is such a
thing as in Deuteronomy, for example,
Deuteronomy 28, if you never read this,
you should read Deuteronomy 28 15-68.
Deuteronomy uh 28:15-68
deals with the idea of curses that fall
upon you when you do certain things. And
I believe in that. I believe I I read
something about somebody eating of a
tree and they lived under a curse and
that fell on all of us. And to this day,
people die.
I didn't make that up, did I? So, if
curses do happen to people, okay, uh
what is that? If you're a child of God,
is it punishment or is it chastening?
But verses 15- 68 give a whole list of
if you don't obey the will of God, what
will and could happen to you.
Do you believe that's still true?
Absolutely,
100%.
You get drunk, good chance you're going
to get a DUI.
You steal something, good chance you're
going to go to jail.
Yes,
bad things happen to bad people. Yes,
they do. Do they tend to happen more to
bad people than good people? Yeah, we
don't talk about that very much, but
yeah, more bad things tend to happen to
bad people than good people. That is
true.
Now, can some good people have more bad
things than some bad people? Yeah. You
mean to tell me that some bad people
suffer less than some good people? Yeah.
You ever heard of Jesus?
Yeah. So, yes.
Now, Hebrews 12:es 5-11 clearly
indicates though that don't
decide you're not his when bad things
start happening because you're supposed
to be chasened. And if he doesn't chasen
you, he doesn't love you. And if your
parents won't discipline you, they don't
love you. Now, they don't have to spank
you. That's up to them to how they do
it, but they need to do something. I
think if they're going to be biblical,
though, they're going to spank you
occasionally. But bottom line, they got
to do something to put you under
control. Somehow they try try to keep
you from getting hurt really bad. And so
if God didn't do that, we wouldn't be
his children. And he doesn't love us.
And if you don't love your kid, you
don't discipline. You discipline your
kid in some way if you love them. So
that's the truth. So do some bad things
happen to us because God is punishing
us.
Disciplining. Yes. punishing as in the
the idea of damnation.
No, not so much that, but yes and no.
Glad to have that part finished and we
figured that out, right? But the second
part of it is, does Satan influence? Yes
and no. Uh he doesn't just influence,
he also afflicts
and he tempts. You You're saying you
think Satan afflicts good people?
Absolutely.
And tempts good people. Absolutely.
Absolutely. Can he deliver on the things
he offers to you? Yes, he can. But it
won't be the way you expect. But yes, he
can deliver. He can give you things you
want. So from the garden, Genesis 3
1-15, clearly that serpent
got them to do something they shouldn't
do. That's clearly there in Job chapter
1 and chapter 2, right? Job chapter 1
and chapter 2. Did Job deserve any of
that?
Not that I know of. Not from the text.
So you mean bad things can happen to
good people and they don't deserve it?
Absolutely. Clearly that is the case in
the book of Job. He didn't deserve what
happened to him. Well, this is confusing
to me. If you think it's a confusing to
you, imagine if you were Job and Job
chapter 9 verse 24. Job makes this
comment and I believe it's one of the
reasons the book is written. And I never
hear anybody talk about this. But I
really believe so you should go read Job
9:24. Job 9:24 asked this question. He's
accusing God of doing all that happened
to him, which of course God didn't do
what happened to Job.
There's the devil, right? Satan did
that. But he asked this question. If it
wasn't God, who was it?
Apparently, Job didn't fully understand
the concept of Satan that we now have as
a result of the book of Job. And so,
that must have been a part of this
revelation, the idea that Satan would
get engaged in these kind of things.
In Matthew 4:es 1-11, clearly Satan took
Jesus out. Well, actually Jesus went by
the Holy Spirit into the desert to be
tempted of the devil. So the Holy Spirit
led him into temptation. So never say,
you're not supposed to say, "Don't lead
us into temptation." Well, he can if he
wants to. That's not a It's not a sin to
lead somebody. By the way, it's not a
sin to be tempted. It's not a sin to be
tempted. not a sin to be led into
temptation. That's not neither one of
those are evil. That's why you pray,
Lord, lead us not into temptation. But
he was led of the spirit in the
wilderness to be tempted of the devil.
And in the wilderness, Satan offered him
things that it seems like he shouldn't
have been able to offer. But he can
offer and he can deliver. And I'm
convinced many of the richest people in
this world and many of the people,
especially in the entertainment
industry, have made a de devil deal.
They made a deal with the devil. I'm
convinced it's happened. And you say,
"Did the sign blood or I don't know what
they did. I'm just telling you, I am
convinced they've made a deal. They've
compromised themselves enough. Whatever
it takes for me to get what I want, and
they're willing to do it." And Satan has
made that possible. Now, Luke 13:16, we
also know that the devil binds. So, the
devil can bind you in your life to the
point that you virtually can't move a
different direction. You can do that
through drugs. You can get so bound up
in drugs that you can't let it go.
So he bound that person with a physical
disease.
Am I saying if you've been bound by a
physical disease that Satan did that?
No, I'm not saying that. But I ain't
saying it's not that either.
Well, that's probably made somebody mad.
But I'm just telling you the truth
because I don't know. I know he's been
able to do it. may still can do it. I
don't know. In John 13:2, he put it in
the heart of Judas to do what Judas did.
Now, that's what it says. He put it in
his heart. How did he do that? I do not
know. I can't tell you. I mean, I could
make conjectures all day long, but if
the Bible hadn't told me, I don't know.
It's the same thing as about
predestination, fordination. It's about
I have to stand on what the Bible says.
I believe every word of the Bible. Amen.
I believe what it says this way and I
believe what it says this way. And even
when it makes me uncomfortable that this
doesn't sound like it goes with that, I
still believe both ways.
And so here I believe that God does
discipline. Sounds a lot like
punishment. I believe that Satan
influences sounds a lot like God's okay
with it at times.
Okay, so that's confusing. I'm sorry,
but that's the summary of the lesson
tonight. I'm sorry. The role of angels
in heaven and on earth. Don't know a
whole lot about it. Know a little bit
about it. Uh free will versus
predestination sounds like a paradox to
me. Yet I believe in free will. I
believe in predestination. I know
somebody's going to come up to me and
said I can explain that Rex. Please. Uh
please don't do that tonight. Come see
me another time when I'm not in the
middle of this. And then does God punish
for Satan? Um, so, uh, answering
questions is, uh, hard, but asking right
questions, maybe actually harder. And I
want to talk just a second about that
and then I'll be done. Uh, Simon SK, I I
kind of like Simon SK. Don't believe
everything he writes, but I read a
couple of things he's written and kind
of like it. He's a author, inspirational
speaker. He was he who made popular in a
speech TED talk back in 2009 on why. You
might remember that about Apple. Anyway,
it's a really good if you hadn't heard
it, I'd recommend it. You go listen to
it. He emphasizes asking why. And he
encourages employees to be leaders by
asking what your why. It isn't enough
what you're doing. We need to know why
we're doing a thing. That's a really
important question. A lot of times it's
one of the hardest questions to answer.
Why are we doing it this way? Why? Why?
Well, we've always done it that way.
That's not an answer. Why? There's a
important question. Elon Musk, and I
know everybody ain't a big Elon Musk
fan. I don't know that I am either, but
he's, you know, he's a business
entrepreneur and uh he's got Tesla,
SpaceX, X, and X AI. And since 2021, as
of December, uh you know, he's been like
one of the wealthiest people in the
world. And as of December 2025, Forbes
estimated his net net worth to be 754
billion in 2025. December 2025. 754
billion.
You could spend a billion dollars a day
for a long time, could you?  I
don't know what you spend a billion
dollars a day on. Anyway, so uh he was
asked um and uh well he he went to he
was a member of the Anglican church and
South Africa. That mean something to us.
Doesn't mean a whole lot to anybody else
as a boy. U but he really wasn't very
religious and he found his niche, if you
will, in science fiction. He really
liked some of you weirdos like me will
like this. Douglas uh Adams, The
Hitchhocker's Guide to the Galaxy.
Okay, I'm looking at the weirdos out
there who would know that. And uh it's
about a supercomput. Do y'all remember
this? Those of you who went through this
called Deep Thought.
There not that many weirdos here. All
right.  So, so it had been
thinking for eons about a question and
it finally got the answer. Does anybody
know what the answer was? You can say it
out loud. What was the answer?
Nobody knows.
Come on. What was it?
42. That's the answer. The problem was
is when they got the answer, they had
forgotten what the original question
was.
It had been thinking for eons. They gave
you the answer of 42. It could have been
Gail SS. I don't know. But Musk refers
to this as the purpose of life isn't as
much about finding the big answers but
out about asking the right questions. He
said the answer is the easy part, the
question is the hard part.
I think that's right.
We can all remember especially you
church leaders
answer is the hard part is asking that
right question
takes courage to ask a question
especially a hard question a question
that's offensive.
It's hard to ask that question. You can
get your feelings hurt.
You can get demoted in a job. You can
get fired.
or it can revolutionize your life.
George Bernard Shaw,
the reasonable man adapts himself to the
world. He's reasonable.
The unreasonable man persists in trying
to adapt the world to himself.
Therefore, all progress depends on the
unreasonable man.
No progress is made unless somebody is
willing to ask the unreasonable
question.
So be unreasonable.
Ask hard questions of others.
Absolutely. But more and this is even
harder. Ask unreasonable questions of
yourself.
1 Corinthians 10:24. Let no one seek his
own good but that of his neighbor. The
salvation of the world depends on
unreasonable men asking unreasonable
questions of others and of themselves.
If you're here tonight and you haven't
been wi willing to face the most
unreasonable question of why haven't you
obeyed the gospel or why haven't you
repented of that sin that's in your life
and you won't deal with it? That's an
unreasonable question to you. It's none
of your business Rexton
but it is somebody's business.
Why?
It may be the most important question
you ever answer. If you're here tonight,
need to make a change. Why not tonight?
Why we stand and why we sing?
