All right. Again, this evening we're
going to look at this idea of kingdom
calling. If you have your Bibles, we're
going to be in 1 Peter 4 this evening,
verses 10 and 11. And I want to offer
just a little bit of encouragement this
evening because I believe that there are
people here tonight
in in the room who genuinely wonder if
they have anything to offer the kingdom.
And that might might be you. Maybe
you're in this room and you know, you
look around and you see people that you
think are more gifted than you. You see
people that you think are more talented
than you, maybe more qualified than you,
and you're a little discouraged.
And there are probably even people here
tonight who are who are wondering,
do I even have anything to contribute to
the body here at Creekide?
And if that's you, I want to encourage
you. We're going to touch on it
slightly, but if that is you, I want to
encourage you to go home, read 1
Corinthians chapter 12, especially
verses 12 through31.
And Paul does an amazing job of
explaining how God has formed uh this
body, designed this body, and how every
single part, every single member has a
place.
And I want to encourage you just a
little bit if that's you tonight. And
I'll highlight one of those passages. 1
Corinthians 12 18.
Paul writes, "But now God has set the
members, each one of them in the body
just as he pleased as he pleased." God
has not overlooked you. God has not
passed over you. God has not forgotten
you. God has blessed us, each and every
one of us, with a gift, with a talent,
maybe even a passion that you can use.
You tonight are right here,
just as he pleased.
You have a kingdom calling. You have
something to contribute to the body here
at Creekide. And you have something to
contribute to the furtherance of the
kingdom. And so I don't know. I can't
don't come up to me asking what that is.
I don't know specifically for you. I'm
still trying to figure out what that is
for me.
But you can be assured
that God has something in mind for you
that can be a blessing to the body and
be a blessing to those here at Creekide.
And I'm hopeful that this study this
night will encourage you uh maybe even
help you find out what our calling is.
Point number one this evening that
kingdom calling is a supplied gift. Uh 1
Peter
4:10. As each one has received a gift,
minister it to one another as good
stewards of the manifold grace of God.
Peter makes a very bold statement.
He says as each one has received a gift,
not as some of you have received a gift.
Each one of you, each one of us, every
single person in this room has received
a gift from God, has received a talent,
an ability, a desire, a passion from
God. Paul talks about this in Ephesians
chapter 4. And this is in the context of
of spiritual gifts. But in in verse 7,
he says, "But to each one of us,
grace was given according to the measure
of Christ's gift." Your gift, your
calling that God has blessed you with is
not random. It's not an afterthought.
You have been put here just as he
pleased to be used. This gift is
intentional and he has given it to us
purposefully. If you go on to verse 12
of Ephesians chapter 4, Paul tells us
why these gifts have been given.
In verse 12, he says, "For the equipping
of the saints, for the work of ministry,
for the edifying of the body of Christ."
The Greek word there to edify means to
build up, to strengthen, to construct
something that is meant to stand.
And so God knows exactly what the body
here at Creekide needs. And God knows
exactly what you need to be a part of it
and to further it and to strengthen it
and to edify it.
And God has given that to you. He's
given it to me. I still don't know
exactly what it is, but he's given it to
me and he's given it to you.
There's not a single person in this room
that's been overlooked.
You may not know it yet. You may not
know exactly what it is, but you have a
calling from God. He has supplied it to
you, and it is for the benefit of the
kingdom.
Number two, kingdom calling is a
selfless giving. We're still in verse
10. I'm doing a lot of work with a few
words here.
Verse 10, as each one has received a
gift, minister it to one another as good
stewards of the manifold grace of God.
And Peter tells us that each uh gift is
is intentional. It's purposeful. And
then he tells us, "God has given you
this gift. Now go use it to serve
others."
Your calling, your gifts, your talents,
your abilities are not meant to be
hoarded. They're not meant to be hidden,
right? They're not meant to only be used
for personal advancement. There's things
that that you guys are talented at that
can be used for personal advancement. I
think of my sister-in-law and and and my
brother-in-law, right? And and they're
very techsavvy graphic designs and
they've made careers out of that. And
guess what? They use those talents and
they use those abilities to bless the
church.
But when we talk about the furtherance
of the kingdom and within the body,
we're not using those for personal gain
within the body.
And I want to encourage you this evening
because I I get like this sometimes, but
I want to encourage you this evening to
resist the temptation to look around at
everybody else and wish that you had
someone else's gift.
I get caught up in that sometimes,
especially when, you know, a brother
gets up here and starts leading singing
and it's really good and I'm like, man,
I wish I could do that.
But resist that temptation. And if you
have your Bibles, go to 1 Corinthians
12. We're going to read verses uh 4-6
now.
And in 1 Corinthians 12, Paul says,
"There are a diversity of gifts, but the
same spirit. There are differences of
ministries, but the same Lord. And there
are diversities of activities, but it is
the same God who works all in all. God
has given you the exact gift that he
wanted you to have.
And he has given you that exact gift
that he wants you to have for the exact
purpose that he wants you to have it.
Paul goes on to say in verse 7 that uh
these gifts are given for the profit of
all. Every gift in this room as
different as they may be was designed to
profit somebody else.
We have gotten a gift so that we can
turn around and give to somebody else
without any thought of ourselves. We are
serving one another. Uh building up one
another, strengthening the body. And
that goes from from uh gifts of of of
preaching to to teaching to uh gifts of
of cleaning up and dealing with the
facilities.
That goes to gifts. I I love uh the the
ministries that our ladies have of of
the teddy bears and the cards that they
send.
Everything
that God has given you as a passion. I
think of our widow and widowerower
ministries.
We have a way. If you have a passion,
you have a way to build up the body, to
strengthen the body, and to serve one
another. You may not see it and you may
not feel it, but each time that you show
up and you use what God has given you,
you're ministering to one another.
You're building up the church, you're
building up the body, and you're
building up um excuse me, you're living
out your kingdom calling. And right in
the same breath, Peter adds that kingdom
calling is a stewarded grace. Verse 10.
As each one has received a gift,
minister it to one another as good
stewards of the manifold grace of God.
Just like everything else in this world,
your gift belongs to God. And he is
entrusting you to use it faithfully.
The reality is is that when you sit on
your gift
and you don't exercise it, when you
decide that your gift, your passion uh
doesn't matter. You decide that somebody
else can do it. Maybe you sit back
because you think somebody else could do
it better than me. The body suffers.
If you're in uh Ephesians 4 still, uh go
to verse 16.
And Paul says that the body is joined
and knit together by what every joint
supplies. So when you steart your gift,
when you steart your calling,
no matter how big or how small you think
it is, you're holding the body together.
And I see my brothers and my sisters
serving and living this out, serving one
another. And I see how it holds the body
together. It keeps me faithful. It
encourages me. And I hope that my
service and and my work does the same
for you. But it we're knitting and
joining the body together. If you go on
to verse 16, he says, 'According to the
effective working by which every part
does its share causes growth of the body
for the edifying it edifying of itself
in love. When each part is working, each
member of the body, each part of the
body is working. When they're pulling
their weight, the body grows and there's
unity and there is effectiveness.
But when one member of the body, when
one part of the body is not growing, the
body feels it.
If you ever I couple weeks ago, month
months ago now, I rolled my ankle and I
could I could hardly walk and my my
right ankle didn't work like it used to
and I feel it. I'm not as effective as I
was. I can't walk as fast as I was. The
body feels it. In the same way, when you
have something that you can bless the
congregation with and you withhold that,
you hold it in, whatever it may be,
whatever reason it may be, the body
feels it.
And so I want to ask you tonight, are
are you being a good steward of the gift
that God's given you? Are you showing up
using what God has given you to bless
everybody else around you to hold the
body together and the build it up?
Because the reality is we need it. We
need each and every person here to be
faithful to what God has blessed them
with. Number four, kingdom calling is a
sustained girding. We're finally into
verse 11. If anyone speaks, let him
speak as the oracles of God. If anyone
ministers, let him do it as with the
ability which God supplies. Praise God
that we do not live out our calling and
we do not have to worry about our gifts.
uh being operated on our own ability and
our own strength.
Praise God.
Because God has not only given us the
gift, he's actually given us the ability
to use it. So if you have a passion, you
have a desire, you have a talent that
you've been given that God has blessed
you with, he has given you the ability
to use it as well. He sustains us. He
girds us from the inside out. He equips
us for every act of service that we've
been called to.
And this is this is amazing news to uh
those who may feel inadequate, for those
who may feel unqualified,
uh to those who wonder if you have what
it takes to exercise your gift and to
serve the body. And it's amazing because
the the the answer to that is is no, you
don't have what it takes and neither do
I.
But God has ensured that we have what it
takes because of the strength that he
gives us. In Ephesians chapter 3, uh
Paul is is he's praying, but he's
praying that God strengthens the
Ephesians church with his might through
the Holy Spirit in the inner man. And
the Bible tells us that if we're a
baptized believer, we have the gift of
the Holy Spirit. And that spirit, the
same spirit that raised Jesus from the
dead is the spirit that is living and
working within you.
God has given us everything that we need
to fulfill the calling.
Last point, kingdom calling is a
showcased glory.
Picking up in verse 11, that in that in
all things God may be glorified through
Jesus Christ to whom belong the glory
and the dominion forever and ever. Amen.
And Peter lands the plane here. And he
closes verse 11 with the entire point
of I I believe our existence.
The entire point of why we have been
placed on the earth. This right here is
the entire reason your gift was
supplied. It's the entire reason that
you serve with it selflessly. It's the
entire region uh reason that we steward
it faithfully. And it's the entire
reason reason that God has equipped us
and sustained us with the ability to
live out the calling.
All of this so that he might be
glorified.
Everything that we've talked about
tonight up to this this morning, it all
funnels and lands and flows right to
this purpose that God might be
glorified. If you go back to to Matthew
5 in the sermon on the mount, Mount
Jesus is um
preaching and he says in verse 16 of
Matthew 5, "Let your light so shine
before men that so others may see your
good works and do what?
Glorify the father in heaven." When you
live out your calling, when you serve
and build the body up,
your light shines. And when your light
shines, guess what? God is glorified.
And Paul tells us in 1 Corinthians 10,
because sometimes we think we can turn
this on and turn this off, right? Paul
tells us in 1 Corinthians 10:31 that
whatever we do, do all to the glory of
God.
That is the utmost important part of
what you're called to do. Give glory to
God. Bring glory to God.
And to him be the glory and dominion
forever and ever. Amen. I told you this
would be a quick one this evening. Uh
the lesson's yours. Your kingdom calling
is a supplied gift. It is a selfless
giving. It is a stewarded grace. It is a
sustained girding. And it is a showcased
glory. The the reality is church, this
isn't a a spectator sport. You're not on
the bench and you weren't meant to be,
right? And my encouragement and my
challenge for you this evening is that
you don't leave this building and go
back to thinking that what you have to
offer doesn't matter.
Don't leave this building and go back to
thinking that you don't have anything to
offer in general.
Because the passage is clear. Each and
every one of us has been given a gift.
Don't look around this room and wish
that you had somebody else's gift.
Be thankful for what God has blessed you
with and use it to glorify him.
And don't sit on what God has given you.
While the body here at Creekide waits
for you to step into your calling, to
show up, to step in, to use what he's
blessed you with to serve each and every
one of us in this room Tonight.
