As disciples of Christ or as students of
Christ, whatever word you want to use,
or apprentices of Christ, we actually
all need to learn. We're never in a
state where we don't need to learn. We
need to learn to one thing, ask
questions. Uh Matthew 7:7 talking about
prayer, but same thing, ask and you
shall receive. Seek and you'll find. So,
it's appropriate to always be willing to
ask. And we need to learn to answer
questions. Colossians 4:6, we need to
have speech seasoned with salt uh so
that we always know how to answer
people. Uh but u asking and answering
can be a dangerous business. I'm I'm
hesitant to tell you this illustration
because I really don't want anybody mad
at me, but it's funny, so I'm going to
tell it to you anyway. as a man thought
he had a great joke to share and he
happened to be in a dimly lit restaurant
and he leaned over to the lady at the
table right next to him and said, "Hey,
uh, would you like to hear a very funny
blonde joke?"
The lady replied, "I'm 6' 3" in. I'm
blonde and I am a personal trainer at
the local gym.
The lady sitting to my left is 6 foot4.
She's blonde and she's a world champion
taekwondo
uh champion. The lady on my right
happens to be 5'9 in tall. She's blonde
and she's an Olympic weightlifter.
Are you sure, sir, that you want to tell
that blonde joke? man sat there for a
second. He says, "No, I think I'll just
keep it to myself. I don't want to have
to explain it three times."
I don't know. It's funny.
It's funny. Anyway, so sometimes it's
dangerous to answer. It's dangerous to
tell a story, too. All right, we got
three questions tonight.
If you're blind, I didn't I didn't mean
that. That's just That's just funny.
Uh fact is I was blind as I could be
when I was a kid. So revelation and
rapture. That's the first question.
That's the way it stated. Revelation and
rapture. So we'll walk through that the
best I can.
So many so-called evangelicals,
which we are not really a part of, but
sometimes we're associated with many
evangelicals believe in the rapture. uh
and to them they believe that the book
of revelation is central to that
discussion and the end of times and u
they consider it a very serious issue
and just to give you a few scriptures
you can see them up above Romans 16 25
and 26 now to him who is able to
establish you according to my gospel and
the preaching of Jesus Christ according
to the revelation the mystery kept
secret since the world began man, but
now has been made manifest by the
prophetic scriptures has been made known
to all nations according to the
commandment of the everlasting God for
obedience to the faith. You may think
I'm agreeing with the whole concept, but
this is the reason I don't believe in
this stuff and I don't believe that
anybody that I know of really
understands the book of Revelation. And
I know some of you taught it here, but
I've listened and I don't believe you
know what you're talking about either.
In Acts chapter 2 and verse 16, it says,
"But this is what was spoken by the
prophet Joel." Now, what does that mean?
When a prophetic utterance had been
given,
had another inspired person not been
available to say this in Acts chapter 2,
it would have been inappropriate for
someone else to stand up and say, "This
is what Joel chapter 2 is talking
about."
How would you know? Without inspiration.
That's the problem. Revelation 11:3. And
I will give power to my two witnesses
and they will prophesy 1260 days clothed
in sackcloth. If that's talking about
somebody in the future going to
interpret it, maybe. But if you listen,
I'm going to read Romans 16 again. I
want you to listen to it carefully. The
reason I say that now to him who is able
to establish you according to my gospel
and the preaching of Jesus Christ
according to the revelation. So this was
the revelation of the mystery. So was a
revelation in the Old Testament that was
a mystery.
Revelations are mystery until somebody
tells you what it applies to. Listen.
Revelation of the mystery that was kept
secret since the world began. How can a
thing be re revealed and be a secret
since the world began? It can verse 26.
But now has been made manifest.
So it has to actually happen the
fulfillment and by the prophetic
scriptures has been made known. So it's
been confirmed by the manifestation to
all nations according to the commandment
of the everlasting God for obedience to
the faith. And this was made known by
someone who's inspired. When you and I
who are not inspired go telling people
what inspired prophetic utterances mean,
most of the time you're sucking it out
of your thumb.
Be careful what you say.
You need to have scripture on that and
you need to have an inspired writer
telling you something. Otherwise, you're
guessing. That's all I'm saying. So,
when we get into the subject of the
rapture or any of these things, they're
just guessing. And I'm I'm going to go
down the scriptures now on what they
believe now. Okay. So, the key passage
suggested by evangelicals to prove the
rapture concept are 1 Thessalonians 4
13-18. I won't read all that. Verse 17
alone is all we're going to read. Then
we who are alive and remain shall be
caught up. And they use the word caught
up. And I'll tell you why in just a
moment. Caught up together with them in
the clouds to meet the Lord in the air.
And thus we shall always be with the
Lord. Okay. So the word caught up and
where does that then rapture come from?
It comes from the Latin.
So we don't use the Latin but the Latin
was used for a very long time
particularly by the Catholic Church. So
some believe this describes the rapture
of believers by the word use of the word
caught up. That's the Latin word
raptimura and it it it's where we get
the English word rapture and it's
actually derived from rapio
which is to seize or carry off and it
comes from the idea of a bird picking
you up like a um from the earth but the
word caught up is where they go. Are
there other scriptures that seem to
suggest that to them? You listen what
I'm saying to them. I'm not saying to
me, but to them. Matthew 24 37-41.
But as the days of Noah were, okay, so
also will be the coming of the son of
man. Verse 38. So as the days before the
flood, they were eating and drinking,
marrying, and given in marriage until
the day that Noah entered the ark. Verse
39. and did not know until the flood
came and took them all away. They point
to that statement. And so also will the
coming of the son of man be. So it's
going to be like that when the Lord
comes. Verse 40. Then two men will be in
the field. One will be taken
and the other left. Two women will be
grinding in the meal. One will be taken
and the other left. And they point to
that. That's the same kind of concept
that they have. Revelation 3:10 again
trying to help you understand their
thinking in this says because you have
kept my command to persevere I also will
keep you from the hour of trial which
they refer to as the tribulation keep
you from the hour of trial which shall
come upon the whole world to test those
who dwell on the earth. So somehow
supposedly the church, the people of God
are not going to enter into that in
their understanding of that passage.
That's not what I understand, but that's
what they understand. Revelation 4:1.
After these things, I looked, and
behold, a door standing open in heaven.
And first uh have I got that up there?
Yeah, I do. And after these things, I
looked, and behold, a door standing open
in heaven. And the first voice which I
heard was like a trumpet speaking with
me saying come up here. They put those
two together and I will show you things
which must take place after this. So
they say so God calls the righteous up
to heaven for to skip out on the
so-called tribulation that's coming.
Revelation 12 and verse 5. She bore a
male child who was to rule all nations
with a rod of iron. and her child was
caught up again same word at least in
the Latin caught up to God and his
throne. So the primary if you stick with
this line of reasoning that they use the
primary contention of evangelicals is
when the rapture occurs in uh relation
to the seven-year tribulation supposedly
described in the book of Revelation.
This is the way it goes. There are those
who believe in what's called the
pre-tribulation, pre-trib rapture. That
means that it happens before the
tribulation that's going to come
supposedly on the whole earth when God's
wrath is revealed upon the people of the
earth that are in sin. Then there are
those who believe in the midtribulation
rapture. That's when it would happen
halfway through the so-called seven
years of tribulation and the abomination
of desolation occurs. Then there is
what's called the pre-wrath tribulation,
I mean rapture, which happens toward the
end of the tribulation before the sixth
seal and before the final bowls of
wrath. Um, and then of course there's
the post-tribulation view. Are you
getting this? That there's a lot of
views on the subject. So there's a
posttribulation view which is the the
rapture and the second coming or a
single event at the very end of the
tribulation
and the believers meet Christ in the
air. But you then they believe that they
return with him to earth to begin his
reign.
That's what they believe. Now, while the
majority of evangelicals believe in this
rapture and that concept that we're
talking about, the majority of believers
in Christ do not.
Do you hear what I said?
The majority of evangelicals believe in
this rapture concept. The majority of
people who believe in Jesus Christ
worldwide reject uh that a rapture is
coming that way. Most believers believe
in the second coming of Christ at the
end of time when the dead are raised and
the living are transformed and we meet
the Lord at the conclusion of the
history of the world. 1 Thessalonians 4
16-17.
And as I stated earlier, this seems to
be highly debated from the perspective
of the evangelicals,
but very little substantial teaching
because I gave you everything they've
got.
I gave you all the scriptures they have.
That's it.
So, um, I'm a skeptic. That's a nice way
of putting it. Don't believe that stuff.
That's my honest opinion that they don't
know what they're talking about and they
couldn't prove it to save their life.
And I'm afraid a lot of people who think
that they understand the book of
Revelation are in the same category. And
if you're one of those people, because
uh I probably disagree with you too, but
I love you. Number two,
Christian response to transgenderism and
homosexuality.
Well, that's not controversial. We'll
just go to the question number three.
Uh, no. Okay. So, teaching in the law of
Moses on homosexuality and
transgenderism. Yes, there is teaching
in the law of Moses on both those
subjects. Leviticus 18:22, "You shall
not lie with a male as with a woman. It
is an abomination.
That's speaking obviously to a man.
Leviticus 20:13, if you doubted that,
Leviticus 20:13 says, "If a man lies
with a male as he lies with a woman,
both of them have committed an
abomination. They shall surely be put to
death, their blood shall be upon them."
Okay? And then
you say, "Well, where is
transgenderism?"
Deuteronomy 22:5,
"A woman shall not wear anything that
pertains to a man, nor shall a man put
on a woman's garment. For all who do so
are an abomination to the Lord your
God." So, some of y'all might think
that's great, and y'all do funny things
at home. Don't tell me about it. Okay?
So,
so it's clearly what I just told you is
the actual statement of fact on these
subjects. That's Old Testament teaching
as well. That's Old Testament, okay?
Teaching of Jesus on homosexuality and
transgenderism. There are people who
want you to believe that Jesus never
spoke on this subject. That's not really
true. But he didn't do it in the
negative. He did it in the positive way.
Matthew chapter, are we there? Did I
have that? Matthew chapter 19:es 4 and
5. And he answered and said to them,
"Have you not read that he who made them
at the beginning made them male and
female?" This is his work. Verse five.
and said, "For this reason a man shall
leave his father and mother and be
joined to his wife, and the two shall
become one flesh." That's his teaching.
You want to argue with it, that's his
teaching. That's what he taught. He
didn't teach it in the negative. Don't
do the other. He just taught you what
was the positive, what we are to do. If
I if I give you money and tell you,
would you go next door and get some
milk? I don't have to tell you uh don't
get everything but milk.
I told you to get the milk and that you
spent my money on candy. That's not
appropriate. Romans chapter 1. Now, so
on the subject of the whole teaching of
the New Testament, which of course is
inspired by the Holy Spirit. So the same
thing as Jesus if you will in teaching.
Romans 1:es 26 and 27 says this, God
gave them up. These are people who quit
believing uh the truths of God. If you
start back in verse 181 19, God gave
them up to vile passions. So these are
passions that are they can become
powerful for even their women exchange
the natural use for what is against
nature. So women, you would think that
that would be the last one to get
involved in this, but percentage-wise,
more women engage in some of this
behavior than men. They just don't live
this way. Verse 27. And that may not
make sense. Uh, as much as 15% of
teenage girls will engage in some of
this behavior,
but more men will live this lifestyle
than women. Verse 27. Likewise also the
men, leaving the natural use of the
woman, burned in their lust for one
another, men with wind, committing what
is shameful, and received in themselves
the penalty of the error which was due.
That's pretty specific. 1 Corinthians
6:es 9 and 10. The unrighteous will not
inherit the kingdom of God, neither
fornicators, nor idolattors, nor
adulterers, nor homosexuals, nor
sodomites. Sodommites are male
prostitutes, particularly for other men.
Usually they were young men. Uh that's
the reason the Old Testament calls them
dogs. Verse 10. nor thieves, nor
covetous, nor drunkards, nor revilers,
nor extortioners will inherit the
kingdom of God. Sounds like it's serious
matter. Matthew 19:12, though, now, so
now we're into this transgender, and is
it okay to engage in the surgeries that
would change thing? Matthew chapter
19:12 says this, "For there are Unix who
were born thus from their mother's womb.
And there are Unix who were made Unix by
men." And uh Daniel, Shadrach, Meshach,
and Abednego probably part of that list.
There are Unix who have been who have
made themselves Unix for the kingdom of
heaven's sake. It doesn't say that they
did a physical thing to themselves, but
that may be what it's talking about. He
who is able to accept it, let him accept
it. It may just simply mean living a
life of celibacy. But the early
Christians, many some of the early
Christians did not believe it was
talking about uh just uh living a
celibate life. Uh the theologian origin
literally castrated himself. Uh the
scopes uh skopts
y sect in Russia practice this pretty
regularly. The council of Nika though in
8325
enacted a series of canon laws because
it became such a big issue that they had
to ban castration because a lot of
people were interpreting this as it
being an acceptable way of being moral.
Couple of things I need to say about
this before I move on to the next little
section.
uh one is that um if you want to study
the subject of homosexuality, I have
people asking me along what causes this,
it is known,
but you have to read the psychology
journals before 1970. In 1970, there was
a shift in the psychological circles. It
was like an earthquake and you were no
longer supposed to find fault with
people over the choices they made. Okay.
But if you read the material that is
printed, there are quite a number of
studies on this subject and they all
pretty much agree. I'm not making that
up. They all pretty much agree. That's
pre970.
Look it up on your phone, your computer.
You'll see what I'm talking about. Read
the studies. You'll discover the exact
cause that seems to be predominant at
least with male homosexuality.
Homosexual tendencies though, I need to
say something else about that.
homosexual tendencies or temptations.
And by the way, and you include in that
this this desire to transgenderize,
which is usually a homosexual thing,
either male or female to some degree.
There's a desire in that, a fascination
with that. Homosexual tendencies or
temptations, and listen to this clearly,
is not a sin.
That's not a sin. No more than
heterosexual temptation is a sin.
Having a desire to sin is not a sin.
Sinning is a sin. Follow me? So acts are
sinful acts. It's the acts that the
Bible condemns,
not the tendency. If we're going to be
condemned by tendencies, we're all lost.
We none of us can be saved
because we're tempted. We're not
Temptation is not a sin. Jesus was
tempted all in all points like as we are
yet without
sin. So you can be tempted and not be a
part of the sin. Now let's get to
opinions about transgenderism and
homosexuality generally said to be
either nonaffirming sin or affirming
love. Okay. Well, I I know a lot of
people want to put it in that category
that it's affirming love. Uh
Romans 11:22, you need to be aware of
both the goodness and the severity of
God. It It's one thing to say, "Well,
God loves us and God would just be want
me to do whatever made me happy." Well,
now you've crossed a line. You said
goodness, right? And now you said God's
never severe,
but God is severe. He will be good, but
he will be severe. I'm sorry. He will be
severe over sin. Sin's not okay. There's
no sin that's okay. There's no sin I can
say, "Well, that sin's not a sin. If the
Bible condemns it, it's a sin. I can't
do anything about that. I didn't write
the thing. I didn't make any of these
rules. You didn't make any of these
rules." You don't get to say, "Well, I
don't I don't think that one counts."
You don't get to do that on anything.
You don't get to say, "Well, yeah, I
committed adultery, but you know, my
husband, my wife, they just weren't very
nice to me." You don't get to do that.
You don't get to do that. That's not
right. It's never right. So, but if you
want to get into the the study of this
subject, a field that might be important
to read up on, what's just come out is
the AMA. Y'all know the AMA. You might
have heard it this week. AMA, American
Medical Association. You ever heard of
them? The AMA and the plastic surgeons
unions have just come out against no one
can have transgender
uh chain surgeries before you're an
adult.
They're not going to do it anymore.
Which probably means there's going to be
a lot a lot of
lawsuits.
We're fixing to see a lot of lawsuits
where parents let or had their kids
reassociated or whatever it is. Uh so
here's some other readings if you would
like. Chris has written on this uh
discredited he's discredited the medical
transition for children. Helen Joyce has
written on this gender critical activist
uh in an Irish journal. Uh the attorney
Josh Payne has written on this.
dransitioning and how people who have
transitioned are regretful about it.
They're still suicidal. It hasn't
resolved the depression issues
associated with it. Mia Hughes, author
of a report confirming the widespread uh
disregard for medical ethics and patient
outcomes on their overall being. Uh
that's been ignored because it was all
about the money. Khloe Cole uh
dransitioning uh urging the Supreme
Court to protect girls in that and then
of course Dr. Miriam Gman uh support the
banning of transgender healthc care as a
psychiatric consultant for American
College of Pediatrics. So we need to
quit giving into this because it's
actually not helping and it's damaging
uh children. That's the main thing. Take
care of the kids. Okay. Uh agree, don't
agree. come see me. I'm sure we can work
sort it out. Yeah. Right. Okay. Number
three. Third question.
Is creation 24-hour days or millions of
years? So, we'll go at this a couple of
different ways and try to answer it the
best I can. The 24-hour day view of a
young earth of 6,000 to 10,000 years.
People go to 10,000 trying to allow for
maybe they got the time off. The
contextual phrase there was evening,
there was morning is seen as a clear
indicator of a standard day.
You got a problem. The theological
argument would be that if millions of
years uh passed, it implies that death
and suffering uh occurred and in the
fossil record and therefore it occurred
before the fall of man which would be a
scriptural incompatibility with
everything being very good.
So you got another theological problem
with it. But on the other side of the
coin, so there's theological problems
with believing that the earth is much
older than that. But then there are
theological people who try to argue why
it could be older than that. I'm going
to give you those arguments. Uh and then
I'll tell you what I think. Uh the
various day age view of an old earth
kind of goes like this that the word day
or young can mean various things. Well,
it does in the text. I told you this a
week or so ago whenever we were talking
about that uh that in Genesis 15, light
was called a day. Light and dark was
called day. Same verse one and second
are changed between verses five and 8.
So that's two different days. The sun
and moon are acquired for a day but they
don't appear until verses 14 through 19.
And the summary period of the whole
event of creation is called a day in
Genesis 2:4. So various meanings of the
word. So like most words, words are used
in their context in the context. Okay?
And generally they can mean different
things in different contexts. That's
true. Scientific consistency tries to
align the biblical narrative with modern
findings such as the big bang and
geological scales. The problem with all
that right now is if you're following
JWS2, anybody watching uh James Web
Space Telescope and the discoveries
they're making, if you're following all
of that, then right now the big bangs up
for grabs. They're not sure that's true
anymore. So, okay. So, uh I don't know
why we have to align with that. And then
the seventh day uh the idea that God
rested uh and it does not include the
use of the term evening and morning
formula suggesting the seventh day is
ongoing. Well, there's some biblical
suggestion of that. Psalm 95:7-11 seems
to suggest that Hebrews 3:11, Hebrews 4
3 and 5. So that's part of their
argument. There's this other argument
that goes the divine cosmos time theory
which goes this way that since uh
24-hour days would be what it would be
from uh God's perspective but from human
perspective it would be billions of
years so that God and man don't see
things the same way. That's their
argument. Then there's the gap theory.
Gap theory is probably the best one I've
seen so far. The gap theory goes this
way between Genesis 1:1 and Genesis 1:2.
is uh potential room for something to
have happened which is the padammic race
discussion. Uh if you want to go down
that rabbit hole we'll talk later about
that. Uh then the poetic literature
device it goes this way and their
argument they're all trying to keep it
to millions of years billions of years
whatever in these arguments. So the
poetic literature device goes this way
that it the text is repetitive. It's
somewhat imaginative in the way it's
written. It's theological which means
it's not strictly to be considered
historical. That's their argument. But
let me give you an example of what they
mean by that. Uh day 1 2 3 or things
that are created and they are filled in
days four, five, six. So structures
exist, theological truths exist, then
God orders those things later. Uh
there's the recurring phrases and God
said and it was so and God said that it
was good in this 7-day framework which
could be seen as a literary device a
pattern and a poetic song like quality
and there have been those who've argued
that and then there is in ancient
cultures this is true cosmology and
history were often entwined intertwined
in poetic form. forms. And so it was not
uncommon even in that time period that
people aligned with poetic use of
various theological concepts
in the verse or the first verse. Uh
there are remarkable layers of
mathematics. And that's true because all
Jewish writings uh they call them
scribes because scribes means to count.
So nu numerology is a part the Jewish
history. Alexandria was known for
sermons on one sermons on the number two
sermons on the number three. They had
this interesting thing they did with
words that each Hebrew word had a number
equivalent. Y'all know anything about
this? I'm looking at you. Okay. So, they
numeric equivalents. So, let's say I'll
use my name Rex. Let's say Rex. I have
no idea what it would be in Hebrew, but
let's just say Rex and let's say Rex is
a I give it a bad number. It's
equivalent to 666. Okay. So, let's just
say Rex is 666. Okay. So if there are
any other words in the Bible that are
666, you could take the word Rex and put
it in the place of that. Or you could
transpose the word that was there that
was equivalent to 666 and put it in the
text where Rex appeared. And you could
do that. And they believe that.
And so they believe that scripture is to
some degree a numerical thing. And if
you look at Genesis chapter 1, there's
actually a good bit of numerical things
happening in Genesis 1. same number of
words, same number of words, the
repeating of 10 words, the repeating of
10 words. That actually occurs. You
probably haven't noticed it because you
don't speak Hebrew, but it really does
occur in the text in Genesis chapter 1.
Now, what do I think about all that?
I I think the scripture argument is
based upon a 24-hour day. Here it is.
And and and let me see, I got it up
here. Here it is. Look at this. This is
the argument that the Holy Spirit makes.
Verses 15, 16, 17. Verse 15 says, "Work
shall be done for six days, but the
seventh is the Sabbath of rest."
Dropping down to verse 17. For in six
days the Lord made the heavens and the
earth, and on the seventh day he rested
and was refreshed. and he's making the
argument of how we should take the
seventh day and not work on it.
That whole argument falls apart if those
aren't days. Doesn't make any sense. So,
I I struggle with that. If you believe
that stuff, I won't fall out with you.
Um
I'm wrong about a lot of stuff. So,
there you go. So, uh, research
scientists can tell us,
uh, what proves something they want us
to believe.
And these same men,
because they're men, can ignore what
they don't want us to believe.
I'm sorry, but that happens.
Where does that happen? Well, that
happens in pharmaceutical business.
It it it happens. It happens when they
were studying cigarette smoking and what
it does to you.
It happens. That's not a makeelieve
thing. It's happened more than you'd
like to admit. So research scientists
cannot uh tell us what proves something
they want us to believe and ignore what
they don't want us to believe.
Uh, in 2007,
a British judge ruled there were nine,
and some of you going to want to think
I'm going political here, but I'm not.
I'm just using this as an example. Okay?
2007, a British judge ruled that there
were nine factual errors presented in an
inconvenient truth. Y'all remember the
film An Inconvenient Truth? Okay, some
of you do. an inconvenient truth that
made it unsuitable for the nation's
school children
unless accompanied by materials to
correct the mistakes that were there. If
this the judge wasn't denying that there
might be climate change, he was denying
the nine factual mistakes and therefore
that film should not be included in the
teaching of the kids. The court ruled
that the bit about sea level increasing
was quote distinctly alarmist. That it
was a little over the top. Not a little,
a lot over the top. A recent report from
the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate
Change, the IPCC,
concluded in this same story, concluded
under even their worstcase warming
scenario, it would take until the end of
this century for ice to for all the ice
to melt in Greenland and the Antarctic
to add. and in enough of it would have
to melt by the end of the century that a
half meter of sea level would rise.
That's virtually what is that to the end
of the century 75 years from now. So my
point is is that the Q&amp;A
you got to be careful. I may not have
given you the answers you want tonight,
but I'm just trying to tell you the
truth what best I can on what the Bible
teaches about each of these things. And
whether you believe it or don't believe
it, it's up to you. And you can do all
the study you want on these things.
But here's the truth.
Whether you're right or wrong on the
what we've studied tonight, be right on
Jesus.
be right on Jesus and what you believe
and what you do about him that matters.
I'm not sure that being right on some of
the stuff we talked about tonight is
significant. I know some of you would
probably disagree with me on that point.
I'm not sure it is. I don't know that
anybody, you know, is going to be lost
over disagreement. I'm not talking about
disobedience, disagreement over these
things. I don't think necessarily
anybody would be lost over that. But I
don't recommend ignoring what it says in
the middle middle of all that. If you're
here tonight and you don't have Jesus,
answering these questions are not your
issue. Jesus is your issue. Repent of
your sins, confess the name of Christ,
and have Jesus in your heart by being
baptized for the remission of your sins,
receiving the gift of the Holy Spirit.
If you need to come, we'll help you with
that while we stand and while we sing.
Think.
