So, we're talking about pain. Princess
Bride, great philosophical story.
Life is pain, highness. Anyone who tells
you different is trying to sell you
something.
Even our encounters with God
can be frightening
and can be dark. Abram.
Genesis 15 verse 12.
A deep sleep fell upon Abram. And
behold, horror. You pick up that word.
Not a word used in the scriptures hardly
at all. Horror and great darkness fell
upon him. Wait, he's encountering God.
Exactly.
Moses. Exodus 20:21. And Moses drew near
to the thick darkness where God was
walking up into that mountain into
absolute pitch darkness.
Jesus, we'll come back to him in Luke
23:44.
There was darkness over all the earth.
Now, recognizing what's called a dark
night of the soul is important
since we're all probably going to have
one. If we haven't already had one, we
will have one. But I want you to
understand that they're not all the
same. So, this idea, well, my dark night
of the soul was not your dark night of
the soul. Well, that's exactly what you
should expect. So, if you think you've
got it figured out, that's not the case.
Let me explain. So, St. John of the
Cross back in the 1500s uh wrote this
thing called the dark night of the soul.
And everybody thinks it's about when
he's in despair. That's not what it's
about at all. Let me just read a little
bit of it so you'll understand. He said
in a dark night with anxious love flame.
Listen to that. In darkness and in
safety and darkness and concealment in
that happy night
in secret without other light or guide.
I'm just reading parts of it. That light
guided me more surely than the noonday
sun where none appeared or guiding
night. Oh night, more lovely than the
dawn. Oh night that has united the lover
with his beloved. Understand his dark
night of the soul was he was about to
see a girl he wasn't supposed to be
around.
You get it?
He was about to do something he wasn't
supposed to do and he couldn't wait to
be there. That's a dark night of the
soul.
And some sitting here have had that
night.
But it's not just that. Yah. How Paul
Simon, this is a different dark night.
Hello darkness my old friend. That's
about a blind man.
Okay, that's a different experience
entirely. The darkness of blindness. And
then Andrew Jose, he comes up with,
"Don't you ever tame your demons, but
always keep them on a leash." What is he
talking about? He's talking about the
darkness of an addiction to a bad
behavior.
So, what I'm trying to suggest to you is
is if you think you've got this all
figured out when I get through, you
haven't. And neither have I.
Okay? Now, spiritual darkness is usually
seen in a season that we we all going to
likely face. It may involve what we
would call spiritual separation from
God. It may involve ignorance of God,
being upset with God. It may involve
some grievous loss of someone we
desperately thought we had to have in
our life or we would never be able to
survive. It could involve isolation,
absolute isolation from those you want
or this sever of a relationship you
thought you had to have in this life. It
could involve a heavy weight of pain and
severe discomfort or deep depression. It
may involve some spiritual desertion,
feeling that God has somehow abandoned
you or will not answer your prayers or
will not deal with you. And you may be
in the pit of despair from that.
If you're not frightened already about
all of this, which I am,
here's ways to help face the darkness of
when you have a moment that you might
consider dark.
One way is we can cry out to God because
the Bible supports it. I mean, I just
told you this one. This is not the only
psalm. There's quite a few. The whole
book of Job, there are times when it's
clear, God, why aren't you doing
something right? My God, my God, why has
thou forsaken me? Right? It's in there.
I didn't write these things. It's in
there by the Holy Spirit, and you need
to know it. So, it's okay to cry out to
God when you're in despair. You've not
done evil. The problem is is crying out
without crying out to God.
There's the problem. Or we may draw near
to Jesus. He's a friend that's closer
than a brother, right? There's no one
closer to us than Jesus. Or we can reach
out for help to our good brethren around
us. Because sometimes just admitting I'm
having a problem to a good brother. I
think there's even something maybe in
the Bible about that. If you have a
fault, you know, pray one for another.
Confess your faults one to another. I
believe that's maybe in the Bible. Maybe
we should consider those as options
instead of acting like there's never any
darkness in my life. I'm going to give
you five things in this text. This is
not the less. These are the points, but
this is not the less.
Number one, darkness can make us good.
Listen to Psalm 88:1 and two. Lord, you
are the God who saves me. Day and night
I cry out to you. May my prayer come
before you. Turn your ear to my cry.
Starts out actually very positive. You
saved me. So having trouble drew him to
the Lord.
It can make you good. Psalm 119 verse
71. It is good for me that I was
afflicted that I might learn your
precepts.
Maybe I need trouble.
It can do me good. I know that's hard to
imagine that my trouble could do me
good, but it can do me good. And being
afflicted can draw me to God. Number
two, darkness can make me grave. Not in
the grave, but grave like serious. It
says in verses 3 to six, I am
overwhelmed with troubles, and my life
draws near to death. I am counted among
those who go down to the pit. I am like
one without strength. I am set apart
with the dead, like the slain, who lie
in the grave, whom you remembered no
more, who were cut off from your care.
You have put me in the lowest pit in the
darkest depths. Well, that sounds really
bad, doesn't it? But the truth is,
there's a blessing
in finally realizing this is not a joke.
This is not a joke.
This is all the most serious thing you
are ever involved in.
Getting married,
having children. This
this is encountering God. This you need
to be gravely aware of what this is all
about.
It's serious. Listen to 1 Peter 4:7. The
end of all things is at hand. Therefore,
be serious.
Maybe you ought to be serious. And maybe
sometimes when things are collapsing
around us, suddenly we get serious. Most
of the time we're laughing and joking
and watching as much comedy shows as we
possibly can. But occasionally
because of trouble, we finally get
serious.
Number six, darkness can make us grieve.
Well, surely Rex, you're not for that.
Oh, but I am.
Oh, but I am. Verse seven. Your wrath
lies heavily on me. You have overwhelmed
me with all your waves. You have taken
from me my closest friends and have made
me repulsive to them. I am confined and
cannot escape. My eyes are dim with
grief.
I call you, Lord, every day. I spread
out my hands to you.
How could that be good?
Ecclesiastes 7:3 tells us how. Sorrow is
better than laughter. For by a sad
countenance, the heart is made better.
You know what you don't do? You're not
in the middle of laughing and say, "I
need to repent."
That's not when it comes.
Usually, there's this water duck coming
out of your eyes, rolling down, and you
start feeling a little bit slimy.
That's when it comes sadness.
So, grieving is a good thing. I'll talk
more about that in a minute. Let me go
to the next thing.
Darkness can make us grateful. Wait a
second. I don't understand that. Hang
on. Verse 10. Do you show your wonders
to the dead? Do the spirits rise up and
praise you? Now, the answer to that is
actually yes. But right now for him, no.
Verse 11. Is your love declared in the
grave, your faithfulness in destruction,
or your wonders known in the place of
darkness, or your righteous deeds in the
land of oblivion?
What happens, believe it or not, is you
become aware of the good things of God
in the middle of the bad things. And you
become very grateful for the good things
that you do have. When when the the good
things diminish, the ones that are left,
you become extremely you become aware of
the grace that's allowed that. Psalm
51:13,
David said, "Then I will teach
transgressors your ways. If you get me
out of this hole that I'm in, I will
teach everybody I know about your
goodness. I will do it as much as I
possibly can." It literally makes you
grateful.
You see, if you have everything, listen
to me. If you have everything and
nothing ever goes wrong, and you never
know what it's like to live in apartment
with rats and birds and roaches and I'm
talking to my wife now, for $75 a month,
you never know what that's like. Then
you don't know what it's like to live in
a room that doesn't have rats and birds
and roaches and snakes and squirrels,
which we had all in ours.
It makes you grateful.
&gt;&gt; Your trouble makes you grateful.
Number next,
darkness can make us gritty. Oh, this is
something that's really true and we may
not admit it. We may not talk about it
very often, but the thing that makes you
as strong as you are is the trouble
you've been through.
Read it. Verse 13. But I cry to you for
help, Lord, in the morning. My prayer
comes before you. So I I'm praying in
the morning. Verse 14. Why, Lord, do you
reject me and hide your face from me?
I'm still praying in the morning. Verse
15. From my youth, I have suffered and
been close to death. I've had trouble
all my life, but I have borne your
terrors and I'm in despair, but I'm
still hanging in there. Verse 16, your
wrath has swept over me. Your terrors
have destroyed me. I'm still here
praying to you, Lord. I'm sitting here.
I'm singing to you now. Verse 17, all
day long they surround me like a flood.
This is all the time. I'm still here.
Still singing to you, Lord. All day long
they surround me like a flood. They have
completely engulfed me. Verse 18, you
have taken from me friend and neighbor
and darkness is my closest friend. I'm
out. I have nobody.
But I'm still praying to you.
I'm still singing.
Right? Makes you a little gritty,
doesn't it? That's the reason James 1:es
2-4 says this, "Count it all joy when
you fall into the various trials." Why?
Because you know that the testing of
your faith produces patience.
And when patience has its perfect work,
it makes you complete, mature, ready to
handle things. So what seems to be a
really bad thing
is really good for us to make us the
greedy people we need to be.
So now that's the lesson, but it's not
the lesson because I want to go kind of
a different path now. I want you to get
you get you where I'm at now on this.
I'll try to get through it as quickly as
I can. Uh Dr. Allen D. Wolflet
said this. He's in bereavement care. You
must make friends with the darkness
before you can enter the light. One way
to honor the need to make friends with
the darkness of grief was to observe a
period of mourning. When they did
venture out into the community, wore
clothing that outwardly represented
their internal reality. It was a way of
acknowledging loss and honoring the need
for a period of darkness. They were
superficial signs of a deeply profound
spiritual crisis. A significant loss
plunges you into what CS Lewis and
Echart Tol and various Christian mystics
have called the dark night of the soul.
Here's what I want to get to. I've done
now I I I don't know exactly the number,
but I I'll tell you pretty much. Before
I moved to Creekide, Belsholes, I've
done somewhere in the neighborhood of
about 150 funerals.
Since I've been here, I've done in the
neighborhood of a little over 150
funerals. So, I've done a little over
300 funerals. They're changing and it's
not good.
It's not good.
The dark night of the soul. You see,
grief is good.
Don't run from it.
You need it.
Jacob, when he died, Genesis 50:10, a
very solemn lamentation observed for
seven days. Not one, not one hour, one
afternoon, seven days. Everybody
grieves. Saul and his sons in 1st Samuel
31 and verse 13, we find seven days.
Aaron 30 days. Moses 30 days. Joseph 70
days.
Now, you may think what I'm fixing to
say is nonsensical. You may think what
I'm fixed to say is actually very
superficial.
I'm challenge you on that. So in other
words, what I'm calling you to now is
what we would call just ritual.
Ritual has its power. If you don't
believe that, why in the world are we
doing the Lord's supper? Why in the
world do we bow our heads when we pray
and close our eyes? Why do we do such
things? Because ritual has power. And
sometimes we don't realize how important
it is. Let me explain. There should be
rituals about people when they die.
Carrying garments was once biblical.
Remember Job? His children dead.
Why?
It helped.
Seven days of morning. What did what
what was the normal in the Bible? You
sit on the floor or on stools
and you don't look in mirrors.
Friends bring food over and you pray
daily. Once upon a time we used to sit
with bodies. Do anybody remember that?
I've done it all night long with a body.
A vigil
daily prayers. How about after 30 days?
What do you do then? You still avoid
parties. Not going to a party. The one I
love just died 30 days ago. I don't want
to go to a party.
Prayer offered 11 months for parents is
common among Jews. 30 days for other
people and then months later you might
put a headstone out or you have an
anniversary marked by a quiet day when
they they're done. Now, do you have to
do those things? No. That's not that's
not my point. My point is the idea of
we're just going to have a celebration
of life and we're never going to think
about it again. That's not healthy for
you. I understand you want to celebrate
their life. That's great. I have no
issue with that. But the idea that
somehow you can get away from the the
grief. You can't. You can't get away
from it. You need to learn to accept it.
It's a part of it. The dark night of the
soul's good grief can inspire you, can
uplift you, can bless you. Now, I'm
going to shift a little bit. Uh George
Gordon Byron wrote this and and and I
well I think I went too far. George
Gordon Bowen wrote a poem. I can't read
it all because it's too negative. It
would really depress you. It did me when
I read it, okay? So, I'm I'm not going
to read it again, but it he wrote it
after the year that there was no summer.
That was caused by a uh Mount uh Tambora
exploding and literally making a winter
over the summer. And yet then his wife
left him and Isabella uh Mikkelbank and
she his marriage totally collapsed. But
he wrote a poem that is so so so dark
because he's so so down. Listen, it says
I I'll give you this beginning of it. I
had a dream
which was not all a dream.
The bright sun was extinguished and the
stars
did wander darkling in the eternal
space, railless and pathless.
And the icy earth swung blind and
blackened in the moonless air. Mour came
and went and came and brought no day.
And men forgot their passions in the
dread of their desolation. And all
hearts were chilled in a selfish prayer
for light. Oh, and that's just the
beginning. It gets much worse than that.
My point is is that he knew what it was
to go through a dark time, having lost
his wife in the dark month of a summer.
Funeral Blues by Odden says this. Stop
all the clocks. Cut off the telephone.
Prevent the dog from barking with a
juicy bone. Silence the pianos and with
muffled drum. Bring out the coffin and
let the mourners come. Let airplane
circle mourning overhead scribbling on
the sky. The message he's dead but creep
bows around the white necks of the
public doves. And let the traffic
policeman wear black cotton gloves. He
was my north, my south, my east and
west. My working week and my Sunday
rest, my noon, my midday, my talk, my
song. I thought that love would last
forever. I was wrong. The stars are not
wanted now. Put out everyone. Pack up
the moon and dismantle the sun. Pour
away the ocean and sweep up the wood for
nothing now can never come to any good.
Michael Card, I don't know some of you
know Michael Card's work. Michael Carr
believes in lamentation. He is saying,
and he's been preaching for about 20
years now, we don't lament enough in
church. We don't complain enough in
church. We don't complain enough to God.
We don't complain about problems. We're
so into this success dynamics thing that
we've abandoned the songs of lament.
Here's what he said. The modern church
has lost the language of lament leading
to a superficial hollow happiness that
fails to address true human suffering.
Biblical men is lament is a necessity
and it's a necessary act of worship. A
redemptive suffering where believers
bring their pain, complaints, and
brokenness directly to God. Biblical
lament is a vital lost act of true
worship where believers must fully be
equipped to handle profound tragedy.
Some of you came out of the black
church, if you will.
They had lament songs. Those spiritual
songs have been lost to us.
Listen to a couple of the titles.
Sometimes I feel like a motherless
child. Nobody knows the trouble I've
seen deep river. I feel like going on
still away to Jesus.
I've been rebuked and I've been scorned.
And there is a bomb in Gilead. Kind of
puts that bomb in Gilead in a different
place, doesn't it? As a society,
I think we're making a big mistake
because we've abandoned grief and
darkness. And listen to me. I think
darkness can be your friend, but that's
not what this lesson's about.
Everything I've said is not what this
lesson's about. And I'm going to tell
you what it's about. I believe this text
is a messianic psalm.
And I believe Jesus knows what it's like
to have a dark day. In fact, I think
there was a day in Jesus' life when
darkness was his friend. When you're
hanging on a cross, the blood is drained
from your arms. It's coming out your
feet, but nowhere else anymore. And
you're hanging there in the sun from 12
to 3:00. It must have been such a
blessing for the sun to not be able to
strike you anymore.
Darkness became his best friend. He was
in the great darkness of knowing that
the Lord had turned his back on him.
And yet it was the best thing.
Wow.
It was the greatest thing.
Wow. Are you telling me that that could
make a difference? It made a difference
in the world and so will your dark day
if you'll do it with God. But if you
attempt it without God, you approach it
without God, you don't pray and complain
to God, you don't say, "God, why are you
letting this happen to me?" You're okay
if you do that. If you even get mad at
him, oh God, I can't believe you did
this. That's okay. You're talking to
God. But you do that out there in the
world and you turn your back and you
walk away and you deal with your grief
that way, it will destroy you.
I want to save you, protect you, deal
with it, deal with the sorrow, the deep
darkness. Because when you do, darkness
becomes your best
