That's the reason we developed these to
go with FriendSpeak. Right now, I'm in
the process of taking these three,
putting them into one book,
and even making it a little more in
detail, a little more pointed toward
Jesus, and
it'll be a different version of the
Bible, too. NIV is the most popular
version of the Bible being sold right
now, and so that's what we'll go with.
Not because I prefer that, but because
that's what people prefer, and that's
what they have.
Uh so, as you see up there, we had three
books. Uh we tried to focus it this way
because felt like the books the the
great Bible studies,
but when people look at them, I wanted
them to see more about Jesus. And so,
that's the direction I tried to take it,
the authority of Jesus, not the
authority of the Bible, but the
authority of Jesus, because it's not the
Bible that has authority, it is Jesus
that has authority, and that's the
reason the Bible has authority. Do you
understand? It ain't the other way
around. The Bible has authority,
therefore No, it's Jesus is one with the
authority. And the believers in Jesus,
so the focus is not the name church,
rather what the believers in Jesus
should be like, which is a church. And
then, of course, we're going to look at
the cross of Jesus today. Okay? So,
we're up-to-date, hopefully.
Hopefully, you got your blue book in the
back, and we're going to run through
this quickly. Going to have to pause at
a couple places, explain a few things,
and try to get through all of this,
okay? So, stay with me if you can.
At the beginning, you'll see, again, in
each of these books, it's been like
this, you need to keep a record of the
people you study with, so when they
write this stuff down in their book, if
you are sitting beside them, please take
that information down so that you can at
least write them because what I found in
these studies is it's not that
it's my problem getting somebody to obey
the gospel as it is getting them to
finish the study.
If you can finish the study, you almost
always baptize somebody, you know, like
90, 95% of the time. But you can't get
everybody to finish the study, that's
why you need their details. So, get
their details, don't do this haphazard.
Okay, so, here we go. You ready? We're
on the paradise we lost by the curse of
sin and death.
And like I said, I'm going to move
pretty quick, so if you want to mark
your book up, go for it. Genesis
1:26-27.
Then God said, "Now, let let's make
humans who will be like us. They will
rule over all the fish in the sea and
the birds in the air. They will rule
over all the large animals and all the
little things that crawl on the earth."
So, God created humans in his own image.
He created them to be like himself. He
created them male and female. So, human
male and females are created by God who
are made in God's own
image, right? Next passage
is Genesis 2:8-9.
Then the Lord God planted a garden in
the east in a place named Eden. Eden. He
put the man he made in that garden. Then
the Lord God caused all that beautiful
trees that were good for food to grow in
the garden. In the midst of the garden,
he put the tree of life and the tree
that gives knowledge about good and
evil. Humans made in God's image were
placed in a paradise garden named Eden.
By the way, Eden is is not the name of
the garden. It Eden is a place. It's a
flat land area. That's all it means,
flat, beautifully well-watered area.
Okay. Next one.
Genesis chapter 2:15-17.
The Lord God put the man in the garden
of Eden to work the soil and take care
of the garden. The Lord God gave him his
this command, "You may eat from any tree
in the garden, but you must not eat from
the tree that gives knowledge about good
and evil. If you eat fruit from that
tree, on that day, you will certainly
die." So, humans were given laws in the
garden that if broken would result in
death. Genesis chapter 3:1-7.
The snake was the most clever of all the
wild animals that the Lord God had made.
The snake spoke to the woman and said,
"Woman, did God really tell you that you
must not eat from any tree in the
garden?" The woman answered the snake,
"No, we can eat from fruit from the
trees in the garden, but there is one
tree we must not eat from. God told us
you must not eat fruit from the tree
that is in the middle of the garden. You
must not even touch that tree, or you
will die." But the snake said to the
woman, "You will not die. God knows that
if you eat the fruit from that tree, you
will learn about good and evil, and then
you will be like God." The woman could
see that the tree was beautiful, and the
fruit looked so good to eat. So, she
also liked the idea that it would make
her wise. So, she took some of the fruit
from the tree and ate it. Her husband
was there with her, so she gave him some
of the fruit, and he ate it. Then it was
as if their eyes opened, and they saw
things differently. They saw that they
were naked, so they got some fig leaves,
sewed them together, and wore them for
clothes. Humans deceived into eating the
forbidden fruit had their eyes
opened. That's right. Paradise we lost
by the curse of sin and death.
Continuing in Genesis chapter 3:16-19.
Continuing with this pause. Then God
said to the woman, "I will cause you to
have much trouble when you are pregnant
and when you give birth to children. You
will have much pain. You will want your
husband very much, but he will rule over
you." Then God said to the man, "I
commanded you not to eat from that tree,
but you listened to your wife and ate
from it, so I will curse the ground
because of you. You will have to work
hard all your life for the food that
ground produces. The ground will grow
thorns and weeds for you, and you will
have to eat the plants that grow wild in
the field. You will work hard for your
food until your face is covered with
sweat. You will work hard until the day
you die, and then you will become dust
again. I used dust to make you, and when
you die, you will become dust again.
Because of their sins, they will have
pain, heart troubles, and
die. By the way, if you become dust, you
shouldn't worry about information. Next,
Genesis chapter 3:24.
God forced the man to leave the garden.
Then he put cherub angels and a sword of
fire at the entrance to the garden,
protected. The sword flashed around and
around, guarding the way into the tree
of life. Because of their sin, humans
had to to separate from God and leave
the
garden, exactly. Isaiah 59:1-2. "Look,
the Lord's power is enough to save you.
He can hear you when you ask him for
help. It is your sins that separate you
from your God. He turns away from you
when he sees them. It is our sins that
end up separating us from
God. So, that's the result of the curse
of sin. Now, we move on to the next
topic that's covered in this book. So,
that's what sin results in. What is sin?
That's an important lesson. 1 John 3:4.
"Anyone who sins breaks God's law. Yes,
sinning is the same as living against
God's law. We sin when we live against
or break God's law, exactly. Romans
14:22-23.
"You should keep your beliefs about
these things a secret between yourself
and God. It is a blessing to be able to
do what you think is right without
feeling guilty, but anyone who eats
something without being sure it is right
to do is doing wrong. That is because
they did not believe it was right. And
if you do if you do anything that you
believe is not right, it is sin. We sin
when we do anything that we think or we
believe is not
right, exactly. James chapter 4. What
this is doing is showing you different
ways that you can sin. James chapter
4:17.
"If you fail to do what you know is
right, you are sinning. So, we sin when
we fail to do what we know is
right, exactly. And then it explains a
little bit about how sin occurs. James
chapter 1:14-15.
"You are tempted by the evil things you
want. Your own desires lead you away and
traps you. Your desire grows inside you
until it results in sin. Then the sin
grows bigger and bigger and finally ends
in death. We desire something evil, that
desire grows, resulting in sin. So, that
all comes from us, so sin is our
problem, not God's problem. All right,
next topic is is death the primary
consequence of humanity's sin? Well,
Romans chapter 3:23
says, "All have sinned and are not good
enough to share God's divine greatness."
So, every human has always committed
sin, exactly. So, we've all done it.
Romans 5:12-14.
"Sin came into the world because of what
one man did." That's Adam, obviously.
"And with sin came death. So this is why
all people must die because all people
have sinned. Sin was in the world before
the law of Moses, but God does not
consider people guilty of sin if there
is no law. But from the time of Adam to
the time of Moses, everyone had to die.
Adam died because he sinned by not
obeying God's command, but even those
who did not sin in that same way had to
die. That one man, Adam, came can be
compared to Christ, the one who was
coming in the future. All people have
sinned and that is why all people must
die. Okay, that's the primary thing
we're taught. Romans 6:23 puts it this
way, "When people sin, they earn what
sin pays, death. But God gives his
people a free gift, eternal life in
Christ Jesus our Lord. All people sin
and when people sin, they earn what sin
pays,
death." Exactly. Revelation 20:12-15,
"And I saw those who had died, great and
small, standing before the throne. Some
books were opened and another book was
opened, the book of life. The people
were judged by what they had done, which
is written in the books. The sea gave up
the dead who were in it. Death and Hades
gave up the dead who were in them. All
these people were judged by what they
had done and death and Hades were thrown
into the lake of fire. This lake of fire
is the second death and anyone whose
name was not found written in the book
of life was thrown into the lake of
fire. People judged guilty and
unforgiven are cast into fire, the
second death." Exactly. So now what we
want to do is we understand what sin is,
we understand what the curse came upon
us was, and what the result of all of
that is. We want to now look at the plan
to save us by Christ's cross, his
sacrifice, and his death. And it was God
who desired to save us through Christ's
cross. We didn't start any of this. And
here let's walk down the path. Whoops,
went too quick. Sorry.
Second Peter chapter 3 verse 9.
"The Lord is not being slow in doing
what he promised, the the way some
people understand slowness. But God is
being patient with you. He doesn't want
anyone to be lost. He wants everyone to
change their ways and stop sinning. So
God is patient with us because he does
not want anyone to be
lost." Exactly. So now we're to 1
Timothy 2 and verse 4. God wants
everyone to be saved and to fully
understand the truth. God wants everyone
to be
saved. Exactly. So John chapter 3:16,
and that's important to gather in God's
heart. This started with God, not with
us. In John chapter 3:16-17,
it says, "Yes, God loved the world so
much that he gave the only son so his
only son so that everyone who believes
in him would not be lost, but have
eternal life. God sent his son into the
world. He did not send him to judge the
world guilty, but to save the world
through him." So God so loved the world,
he sent Jesus to save the world through
belief in him. Yes, that's great. All
right. 1 John 2:2.
Jesus is the way our sins are taken away
and he is the way all people can have
their sins taken away, too. So God sent
Jesus to be the way all people's sins
are
taken away. All right. Genesis 3:15,
back to the promise. It says, "I will
make you and the woman enemies to each
other. Your children and her children
will be enemies." He's talking to the
devil here, not to her husband, even
though that might sound right. I will
make
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; you the woman enemies to each other.
Your children and her children will be
enemies. You will bite uh
her child's foot, but he will crush your
head." Exactly, that's a terrible
translation. Anyway, from the time of
Eve, it was known her child would crush
Satan's head. Exactly. So Satan was
going to be defeated through a
descendant. In Genesis 22:8, Abraham
answered, "God himself is providing the
lamb for the sacrifice, my son." So both
Abraham and his son went together to
that place. From the time of Abraham, it
was known God was providing the
sacrifice, the lamb. That's right. Okay,
now we're to another topic here. So
we've kind of established the idea that
all of this effort to save us through
the cross was established by Jesus by by
the Father. And how God saves us in
Christ was and is to some degree a bit
of a mystery, which is the reason you
need to cover this a little bit because
we're going to teach the cross, we need
to explain the cross. So that's what
this is about. 1 Corinthians 2:7-8,
"But we speak God's secret wisdom that
has been hidden from everyone until now.
God planned this wisdom for our glory.
He planned it before the world began.
None of the rulers of this world
understood this wisdom. If they had
understood it, they would not have
killed our great and glorious Lord on
the cross." So it never was understood
fully. So no one fully understood God's
plan to save the world by the
cross. They didn't get it.
That's what that's saying there. Okay,
Romans 5 and even today many people
don't understand it. Romans 5:6-8,
"Christ died for us when we were unable
to help ourselves. We were living
against God, but at just the right time,
Christ died for us." Say it again. Very
few people will die to save the life of
someone else, even if it is for a good
person. Someone might be willing to die
for an especially good person, but
Christ died for us. Third time it says
it. While we were still sinners, and by
this God showed how much he loves us. So
we know God's love because while we were
sinners, Christ died for
us. Yes. So now what we want to look at
is a how did Christ die for us? We have
seen it all over the place. How does
that happen? And how how is it apply? So
here's what we got to read to figure
that out. Deuteronomy 24:16,
"Fathers shall not be put to death for
their children, nor shall the children
be put to death for their fathers. A
person shall be put to death for his own
sin." So under the law of Moses, no one
was to be put to death for
others.
So that makes this kind of a conundrum,
doesn't it? Isaiah 53 and that's the law
that Jesus lived under. Isaiah 53:5-6
says, "But he was being punished for
what we did. He was crushed because of
our guilt. He took the punishment we
deserved and this brought us peace. We
were healed because of his pain. We had
all wandered away like sheep. We had
gone all our own way and yet the Lord
put all our guilt on him." So yet Isaiah
says this one he spoke of would be
punished for
our sins, us, our guilt.
Okay, Isaiah 53:8.
How how can that be if the Bible says
that can't be? Isaiah 53:8, "He was
taken away by force and judged unfairly.
The people of his time did not even
notice that he was killed, but he was
put to death for the sins of his
people."
And he would be judged unfairly and put
to death for the sins of his people.
That's you and me. Galatians 3:13, it
says this, "The law" and this is Paul.
Paul made the argument. So if you
disagree with this theology, you
disagree with Paul. Genesis Galatians
3:13,
"The law says we are under a curse for
not always obeying it." Well, that even
goes back to the garden, right? But
Christ took away that curse. He changed
places with us and put himself under
that curse. That's what it says. The
scripture says anyone who is hung on a
tree is under a curse. So he bases that
argument on that passage. Paul explains
Jesus changed places with us and put
himself under the
curse. Exactly, the curse that had been
on man since the garden of Eden. So now
let's move along. Deuteronomy 21, here's
that passage. Deuteronomy 21:22-23,
"A man might be guilty of a sin that
must be punished by death." Yeah, that
can happen. People might kill him and
hang his body on a tree. "You must not
let that body stay on the tree
overnight. You must be sure to bury this
man on the same day because the one who
hangs on a tree is cursed by God and you
must not let the land that the Lord God
of your air is giving you become
unclean. Jesus was killed on a tree, the
cross, and became one
cursed by God because God can't lie.
Second Corinthians chapter 5 verse 21.
Christ had no sin, but God made him
become sin so that in Christ we could be
right with God. So though Christ had no
sin, by death on a tree, God made him
become
sin. Exactly. Then it's put this way in
Peter. First Peter 3 and verse 18.
Christ himself suffered when he died for
you. And with that one death, he paid
for your sins. He was not guilty, but he
died for people who are guilty. He did
this to bring all of you to God. In his
physical form, he was killed, but he was
made alive by the spirit. So the one not
guilty was made guilty that the guilty
might be made
free or
sinless.
All right.
Saved. Whatever the word you want to
pick there. All right, here we go. First
Peter 2 verses 22 through 24.
He never sinned
and he never told a lie.
People insulted him, but he did not
insult them back. He suffered, but he
did not threaten anyone. No, let He let
God take care of him. God is the one who
judges rightly.
Christ carried our sins in his body on
the cross. He did this so that we would
stop living for sin and live for what is
right. By his wounds, you were healed.
Again, Isaiah there. So the just and
innocent Jesus carried our sins in his
body on the
cross. That's where your sins went,
folks. They were killed.
Romans 9 verse 15, your curse was taken.
God says to Moses, "I will show mercy to
anyone I want to show mercy to." As you
see, be whatever he wants. He is God. "I
will show pity to anyone I choose." So
God, by the cross, made it legally and
morally possible to show anyone
mercy.
That's right. He He made that possible.
He didn't have to, but he made it
possible. Romans 11 verse 32. All people
have refused to obey God, and he has put
them all together as people who don't
obey him so that he can show mercy to
everyone. So God's plan in Christ has
made it so that God can show mercy to
everyone. Wow. But it's up to him. You
see, it's not up to us. It's up to him.
So now we're into the preconditions for
our salvation. So what we're fixing to
deal with right now, I want to tell you,
this is when you take out a sheet of
paper. That's fine for them to fill out
what we're going to look at here, but
you need a sheet of paper when you do
this section. And you need to write down
everything they say. Let them even let
them write it down, okay? This is
critical. You may think what I'm saying
right now, I don't know what in the
world I'm talking about. Let me tell
you, this is critical to getting someone
to obey the gospel properly because they
will tell you all kinds of things that
they did that they never did after you
teach them what the Bible says you're
supposed to do. It is amazing how man's
mind works. We assume we've done
everything correctly. We always assume
that. If anybody's wrong, it's our mate.
If anybody's wrong, it's our children.
If anybody's wrong, it's somebody else,
but I did everything right.
That's what we tend to do. That is our
default stand. And so we If they don't
If you don't write down what they say
they did in their own words,
they'll tell you they did what you they
didn't do.
I'm just telling you straight up. I've
seen it too many times. I'm not making
that up. That's not a joke. It's not a
trick. It's their brain tricks them.
Make them write it down or you write it
down for them. Here's what you go
through. Here's what we do. So the
preconditions for our salvation in
Christ is what we're going to be looking
at. So we study what Christ did to save
us,
but what are the preconditions, if any,
that we must meet? In other words, is
God just going to save us all because he
has the power to? Cuz that's what we
just learned he's capable of.
What must we accept? What must we obey
believe or obey or comply with to
receive that Are there any requirements?
And if you believe you're saved already
or have
been saved at some point in the past,
how did that happen for you? Are you
saved? Write it down. If they say they
are, write it down or have them write it
down.
It's good to just have these questions.
Are you saved?
Okay?
Next question.
If saved,
how were you saved? In their own words.
Cuz when were you saved? 20 years ago.
Where? Well, blah blah blah church. What
happened? Write it down. Whatever they
say, write it down, okay? Cuz that's
what they believe.
They may tell you later, "Oh, no, I did
it different."
No, this is their words.
What they said they did, write it down.
Cuz you'll be surprised how they deny
that they didn't do it that way later.
Okay?
Next.
At what point in your conversion
experience were you saved?
Were you saved when you believed? Yeah,
yeah, yeah, yeah. Did you when you were
baptized? Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. When
you confessed? Yeah, yeah, yeah. When
when do you believe you were saved?
That's all you want. Not my words. Don't
put words in their mouth.
What do they believe?
Doesn't matter what I believe. Doesn't
matter what you believe. Matters what
they believe about what they did.
Next. Have you been baptized?
Wait, I did I cover that already? Yeah,
have you been baptized? Yes or no?
That's a yes or no. Have you been
baptized? And it doesn't matter what
they think about it. If they sprinkle,
pour it or whatever, that doesn't matter
right now. Have you been baptized? Yes
or no?
Next question. If baptized, were you
baptized by sprinkling, pouring, or
immersion? Some of them you just have
them circle one of these. Doesn't
matter. Whatever they say, you're not
arguing with this. Do not argue with
what they say. This is what they did.
Write it down.
And then wait. Last one. Uh if baptized,
were you saved before or after you were
baptized?
That's a simple question.
Were you saved before or after you were
baptized? This is not for you to argue
with. This is not for you to impose your
thinking. This is what they believe.
It's critical you get what they believe
down on a piece of paper.
And hold onto that piece of paper.
If you get it in the book, great.
Okay.
What are the conditions or preconditions
for salvation? Now we're just going to
read the Bible, right? We're going to
see what the Bible says about this
subject. That's it. That's what we're
going to do. Here we go. John 3:16. Yes,
God loved the world so much that he gave
his only son so that everyone who
believes in him would not be lost, but
have eternal life. So the condition to
be saved here is we must
believe. That's right. So, got to
believe. John 8 verse 24. "I told you
that you would die in your sin. Yes, if
you don't believe that I am
believe that I am, you will die in your
sin." So if we do not believe in Jesus,
we will die in our
sins. That's right. All right, let's
keep reading. So, got to believe. You
don't believe,
you're going to die in your sins.
Acts 17 verse 30.
"In the past, people did not understand
God, and he overlooked this, but now he
is telling everyone in the world to
change and turn to him."
King James would be repent. But the
condition to be saved here is we must
change and turn to him, right? That's
what it says. Next verse. Luke 13:3.
"No, they were not, but if you do not
decide now to change your lives, you
will also be destroyed like those
people." So if we do not decide to
change our life, we will be
destroyed. So again, you have to
believe. You don't believe, you're in
trouble. You got to change. If you don't
change, you're in trouble, right? That's
it. So let's go to the next thing.
Romans 10. Oops, I don't skip too much.
Yeah, I went too far. Sorry. Romans 10
verse 10.
"Yes, we believe in Jesus deep in our
hearts, and so we are made right with
God, and we openly say that we believe
in him, and so we are saved." So the
condition to be saved here is we must
say we believe in him. So we have to say
it out loud, right? We're supposed to
confess it out loud, say it out loud,
right?
Matthew chapter 10 verses 32 and 33. "If
you stand before others and are willing
to say you believe in me, then I will
tell my father in heaven that you belong
to me. But if you stand before others
and say you do not believe in me, then I
will tell my father in heaven that you
do not belong to me." If we say we do
not believe in Jesus, then we do not
belong to him. So again, you must say
you believe. If you don't say you
believe, you're in trouble. Okay, that's
the same thing. You'll notice that.
Believe, you don't believe.
Change, you don't change.
Say it, don't say it, right? You getting
it? And every one of these. Now, we're
in 1 Peter 3:21 and water is like
baptism which now saves you. Baptism is
not the washing of dirt from the body.
It is asking God for a clean conscience.
It saves you because Jesus Christ was
raised from death. So, the condition to
be saved here is we must be
baptized. That's right. John 3:5 says,
"Jesus answered, 'Believe me when I say
that everyone must be born from water
and the spirit. Anyone who is not born
from water and the spirit cannot enter
God's kingdom. If we are not born from
water and the spirit, we cannot
enter God's kingdom.' Absolutely. Again,
you must be baptized. If you're not
baptized All right, Mark 16:16 puts it
this way. He who believes and is
baptized will be saved, but those who do
not believe will be judged guilty. So,
Jesus said, "Whoever believes
and is baptized
will be saved." This is something you
might want to write down somewhere on
your page. This is for your notes, not
to go in a book that you would ever give
to somebody, but this would be something
you could write down because these are
the three interpretations of that
passage that you see today. Those who
believe you're baptized and saved and
later come to believe are generally
considered Catholic in their theological
position. Those who believe that you're
saved when you believe, you believe
you're saved and then later you're
baptized is generally would be community
church, Baptist, that sort of thing.
But, the text says you must believe and
be baptized to be saved. It's a clear
and easy way to express to them how they
might have missed it right here. Keep
studying them. So, next we go to Acts 2
and verse 38. Peter said to them,
"Change your hearts and lives and be
baptized." Again, that changing and be
baptized each one of you in the name of
Jesus Christ, then God will forgive your
sin and you will receive the gift of the
Holy Spirit. Peter told them to change
their hearts and lives and be
baptized and then God will
forgive your sins and give you the Holy
Spirit. Exactly.
Then, Ephesians chapter 1:30 says,
"Praise be to the God and Father of our
Lord Jesus Christ. In Christ, God has
given us every spiritual blessing in
heaven." So, in
Christ, God has given us every spiritual
blessing in heaven. Again, we go to 2
Timothy 2:10. "So, I patiently accept
all these troubles. I do this to help
the people God has chosen so that they
can have the salvation that is in Christ
Jesus. With this salvation comes glory
that never ends. God has chosen so that
they can have the salvation that is in
Christ Jesus." And the point of all this
you're going to see right here.
Uh Galatians chapter 3 and verse 26.
"You were all baptized
into Christ and so you were all clothed
with Christ. This shows that you were
all children of God through faith in
Christ Jesus." This makes it clear that
we are all baptized into Christ.
Remember what I was talking about all
the gifts, the divine gifts from God?
They are found in Christ. How did you
get into Christ? This is the passage
that's emphasis right there. Ephesians 4
and verse 5. "There is one Lord, one
faith, and one baptism." The point of
this is, "I was baptized when I was
three and and I was bapt- This is
critical. We got to cover this. So,
how how many times do you need to be
baptized? Obviously, there's just one
correct baptism. This makes it clear
that there's only one acceptable form of
baptism. That's right. Sorry, I kind of
walked over you there. Acts chapter 8
verse 36 through 38.
Skipping 37 cuz it's not in the the best
text. Verse 36. "While they were
traveling down the road, they came to
some waters. The official said, 'Look,
here is water. What is stopping me from
being baptized?' Then, the official
ordered the chariot to stop. Both Philip
and the official went down into the
water and Philip baptized him.
Acceptable baptism requires going
down into the water. Absolutely.
Oh, did I skip that? I didn't put it up.
Sorry about that.
I'm getting tired. All right, let's go.
Sorry. Trying to get through here,
folks. I'm sorry. 1 Peter 3:21 again.
And water is like And the that water is
like baptism which now saves you.
Baptism is not the washing of dirt from
the body. It's asking God for a clean
conscience. It saves you because Jesus
Christ was raised from the dead. So,
acceptable baptism requires seeking God
for a clean
Well, that's critical if we if we're
talking about I was baptized when I was
a baby, you didn't have a a dirty
conscience as a baby. Nobody does.
In Romans chapter 6:3-5,
"Did you forget that all of us became
part of Christ Jesus when we were
baptized? In our baptism, we share in
his death." So, when we were baptized,
notice Paul's including himself here
that he's one of the we. "When we were
baptized, we were baptized with Christ
and took part in his death. And just as
Christ was raised from death by the
wonderful power of the Father, so we can
now live a new life. Christ died and we
have been joined with him by dying too.
So, we will also be joined with him by
rising from the dead
from death as he did. So, through our
baptism, we share in Christ's death and
his resurrection from death and we are
buried with him in baptism." That's a
hard one to fill in, but you can do it.
Okay, finally. So, now look here where
we are now. So, here are final
questions.
And And this is critical because this is
This is a conversation you've got to
have now at this point. Final questions
on conditions or preconditions of
salvation. Now, remember you've got that
sheet of paper that what they said they
did. That's critical. You got it.
They're not lying. That's what they said
they did, right?
I didn't make them do that.
Okay? Then, now we ask the question.
Uh where do you get the benefits of the
death of Jesus? Well, we just read it.
Right?
Just read it.
Uh in baptism.
If we're baptized the way the Bible
says, could we be wrong? That's a just a
thought question. Of course, you could
be wrong if you baptized the wrong way,
but can you be wrong if you baptized the
way the Bible says? No, of course not.
If we're not baptized the way the Bible
says, could we be wrong? Of course, you
can.
Uh do you want to take a chance on
missing heaven?
Uh do you believe Jesus Christ is God's
son
and the way we're saved?
Most people will say yes. Are you
willing to change your heart and your
life and live for God? Most people will
say yes. Are you willing to believe in
Christ before others and
to say it?
Most will say yes. Have you been
baptized in the name of Christ for the
forgiveness of sins? This is where the
rubber meets the road now.
This is where it starts happening.
You start comparing what they said they
did to what they're saying here. Cuz
they'll start arguing with you.
And if you were taught you had the
forgiveness of sins before baptism,
could you have been baptized for the
forgiveness of your sins? Most of them
will have been taught they were saved
and then were baptized later.
Well, they're saved, their sins are
forgiven. Right? You're You're
If you're saved, your sins are forgiven.
Well, if you were saved, you weren't
baptized to be saved. You weren't
baptized for the forgiveness of sins.
If you were taught you were saved before
baptism, could you have been baptized to
be saved? That's the next question.
No.
Since God describes the acceptable one
baptism as a burial in water, could you
have been acceptably baptized if you
were sprinkled or poured on you?
No.
That's just the way it is, folks. That's
the way this study ends.
It leaves it hanging.
What they said on their sheet
with what the scriptures we just read.
If you don't do it in that order, they
think they've done it all exactly the
way the Bible says.
Now, it's up to God to judge us all.
Amen?
God's going to judge us all.
But, he's going to judge us according to
the book.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; And all I got is the book. Amen? That's
all I got. I ain't got nothing else. If
you got something else, you let me know.
But, that's all I got. So, I'm trying to
teach it the way the book says. And John
14:15, "If you love me, you will do what
I command."
Okay?
If we really love Jesus, will we want to
obey him?
Yes. Do you love Jesus?
Yes.
Do you want to obey Jesus?
Yes. Here's the real question. Since
Jesus wants you to be baptized and now
that you understand all he did for you
and the importance of believing in
Christ, changing your heart, saying you
believe in Christ, and being baptized
into Christ right now, when it please
Christ for you to be baptized right now
and make your salvation certain. That's
it.
It's certain then. It's cuz it's
biblical.
Here's the way you teach it.
Uh all I can tell you is do
does this go down well with everybody?
If they get through book one,
if they get through book two,
and if you have two probably sessions on
book three,
yeah,
it will go down pretty good.
About 90 something percent of the time.
So uh
well, I believe it. All right, I got
like 2 seconds.
I had the sheets back there. Tips,
remember biblical evangelism tips?
Uh it says
Let me go. Here we go.
But he says he who sows sparingly will
also reap sparingly, he who sows
bountifully will also reap bountifully.
The more people you teach, more likely
you're going to win somebody.
So let each one give as he purposes in
his heart, not grudgingly or of
necessity, for God loves a cheerful
forgiver. If you're miserable doing it,
it isn't that you shouldn't do it. You
should need to change your heart.
By the way, you know why God loves a
cheerful giver?
Because he's a cheerful giver.
Drop down to verse 10 for the second
time. But now he who supplies seed to
the sower and bread for food, supply
multiply the seed you have sown and
increase the fruit of your
righteousness.
Theoretically, if you put effort into
this, you'll see a lot more than you
think you will. Verse 12, for the
administration of this service not only
supplies the seed of the saints, that is
this will bless saints,
but it'll bless the others, too. By the
way, this latter one, verse 13, is for
those of you who are extremely
conservative and don't think that we
should ever help people who aren't
members of the church, you ought to read
verse 13 very closely. Verse 13 just
tells you you're wrong. So listen to me.
It says, while through the proof of the
ministry, they glorify God for the
obedience of your confession of the
gospel of Christ and for your liberal
sharing with them and all men. So you
give to everybody. So we don't just help
members of the church, we help everybody
that needs help. Amen. That's what the
Bible says. Okay, so I wanted to point
this next thing out real quick cuz the
time's out. I got 1 minute. Uh
I was reading this the other day and I
couldn't help but think of this.
Again, the kingdom of heaven is like a
merchant seeking beautiful pearls, who
when he had found one pearl of great
price, went and sold all that he had and
bought it. I know we put that passage on
ourselves and we think that that only
has an application for us, but I think
it also has an application for the son
of God himself. So the kingdom of heaven
is like a merchant, happens to be the
Lord Jesus, seeking beautiful pearls,
and look what he was looking for. And
who when he had found one pearl of great
price,
that is a pearl of great price.
He went and sold all that he had.
And he bought it.
He bought it.
Pearl of great price. Paid for it.
Whether we'll engage in this process or
not. Thank you so much. Woo.
My my part's done. Y'all have a lovely
day.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Woo. I'm done.
